Ballou, now there's a specimen ripe for study, like a petrified frog dredged up from some ancient geological absurdity. Claimed to be a lawyer, mind you, fresh out of the East, with a diploma smelling faintly of ink and innocence, like a newborn babe dipped in library paste. He arrived in Carson City like a misplaced icicle in August, all thin limbs and earnest pronouncements. A fella couldn't help but feel a mite sorry for him, even as he chuckled into his sleeve. He toted about a carpetbag bulging with law books, though I suspect he knew as much about the finer points of jurisprudence as a coyote knows about crocheting doilies. He'd stand there, pale-faced and bewildered, while prospectors haggled over claims with threats and rusty six-shooters, looking for all the world like a Sunday school teacher dropped into a saloon brawl.

He tried, bless his heart, he really did. He even took on a case involving a stray burro that had eaten the prized petunias of Mrs. Abernathy, a widow with a tongue sharper than a Bowie knife. Ballou, bless his naive soul, tried to introduce "evidence" and cite "precedents," while Mrs. Abernathy was ready to settle the matter with a well-aimed rock. It was a comical sight, I tell you, watching him squirm and sputter, his legal jargon dissolving into the desert air like morning mist.

Of course, the locals saw him as a walking, talking joke, ripe for the pickin'. They'd send him on wild goose chases after mythical silver mines and concoct elaborate legal riddles just to watch him unravel. Ballou, being of the gullible sort, usually fell for it hook, line, and sinker. But, strangely enough, nobody ever quite took him for granted. There was a certain honest, almost childlike, quality about him that made you want to protect him from the rough and tumble realities of the West. He may have been a greenhorn in a land of grizzled veterans, but he was *our* greenhorn, and woe betide the fella who tried to cheat him *too* blatantly. Ballou, the poor sap, probably never realized how much he was liked, or how often we secretly helped him out of the messes he so diligently managed to find himself in. He was like a stray puppy, all legs and enthusiasm, and we were a pack of mangy hounds who had reluctantly taken him under our protection. He'd probably become a great lawyer back East, given time and a decent library, but out here, he was something far more amusing: a lawyer lost in the wild, wonderful, and utterly illogical chaos of the Nevada Territory.
