Now, Ballou. Ballou was a specimen, I tell you, a prime example of what happens when you send a greenhorn from the civilized East out to the wilds of Nevada, armed with nothing but a banjo and a book of etiquette. He arrived in Virginia City looking as fresh as a daisy in a dust storm, sporting a bowler hat so shiny it practically blinded the miners and claiming he aimed to make his fortune. We all chuckled, of course, because in Nevada, fortunes are usually made by someone else, and you just get to watch. Ballou, though, he was optimistic, bless his cotton socks. He figured he’d strike it rich, not with pick and shovel, mind you, but with music. Said he’d charm the silver right out of the ground with his banjo playing.

The first time he tried to serenade the miners, a few nuggets short of a full pan themselves, they pelted him with rocks. Not malicious, you understand, just…appreciative of the silence that followed. After that, he tried his hand at everything. Mining, of course, which he approached with the grace of a newborn calf on ice skates. He even tried claim-jumping, but he did it so politely, asking permission and offering to help the current owner move his belongings, that the fella just felt sorry for him and gave him a few shares in a worthless mine just to be rid of him. It was said Ballou could even fail upwards, but even he knew a pig with wings wasn't on his way home for Sunday supper.

His persistence was remarkable, though, I’ll give him that. He never lost that cheerful disposition, that unwavering belief that something good was just around the corner. Even when he was flat broke, covered in mud, and being chased by a particularly cantankerous mule, he’d still manage a smile and a little jig. We all knew he was a lost cause, a square peg in a round hole, but we couldn't help but admire him. He was a fool, yes, but a genuine, honest-to-goodness fool, the kind you just don't find anymore. And in a land of hardscrabble miners and shady characters, a fool was a rare and precious thing, indeed. Almost as rare as finding a vein of silver that actually paid off.
