Winter, bless its frosted whiskers, arrives in these Nevada diggings with all the subtlety of a runaway stagecoach. One minute you’re swatting flies and cursing the sun's tenacity, the next you're waking up to a world dipped in a glaze so slick you’d swear the Lord himself had been ice skating on the plains. And then, the complaints begin. Folks whining about the cold, as if they hadn't been warned by every blasted almanac and long-bearded prospector for the past century. They bundle themselves up in furs thicker than a Senator’s promises, waddling about like overstuffed dumplings on a mission. You'd think a polar bear had shed its entire coat upon Virginia City.

The wind, that pesky varmint, gets right down into your bones, insinuating itself into cracks you didn't even know you had. It howls like a coyote with a toothache, carrying with it little needles of ice that sting the face worse than a rejected suitor. The saloons, naturally, become the center of civilization. Men huddle around the pot-bellied stove, swapping tall tales and swilling whiskey guaranteed to keep the frost at bay, or at least make them forget it for a spell. The snow piles up, deeper than a claim jumper’s lies, turning the streets into treacherous bogs. Getting across town requires more bravery than facing down a grizzly, and a good deal more luck. Mules sink up to their bellies, stagecoaches get bogged down, and only the hardiest souls venture out after nightfall, armed with lanterns and a healthy dose of cussedness. You might even see some poor fool searching for gold, thinking the snow somehow hid the riches. He probably needs a drink, and a good dose of common sense. But then, common sense is a rare commodity in these parts, especially come winter. It seems the cold drives it right out of a man, leaving only a craving for warmth and something strong enough to burn a hole through it. So, here we sit, waiting for the thaw, hoping we don't end up buried in a snowdrift, or worse, listening to old man Peabody telling the same darn story about his lucky strike, again.
