Pards, now there's a word that clings to the tongue like alkali dust after a week on the salt flats. It ain't just a "friend," mind you. A friend might lend you a dollar, but a pard’d lend you his last chew and a blanket when the wind’s tryin’ to scrape the skin off yer bones. Seen plenty o' fellas callin' each other "pards" who weren't worth a plugged nickel in a poker game, let alone a dust-up with a band o' claim jumpers. They were just usin' the word like folks use "fine," to describe weather that’s hotter than a blacksmith's anvil.

The genuine article, though – a real pard – he's a critter to be treasured more than a strike o' silver in a played-out claim. He's the feller who knows you're lyin' about that fish you caught, the one that "got away," but winks and nods along anyway, just to keep the peace. He's the one who'll share his beans, even if they're mostly weevils and grit, and pretend they’re gourmet tucker. He'll patch your britches with whatever scrap he can find, even if it’s a piece of an old flour sack with "Best Quality" printed right across yer backside.

I recall once, me and ol' Jedediah, rest his soul, we were greener than pond scum and got ourselves lost out in the Nevada desert. Now, Jedediah, bless his simple heart, was about as sharp as a sack o' hammers, but he had loyalty thicker than molasses. We were out of water, hotter than the hinges of Hades, and I was fixin' to give up the ghost, when Jedediah, he spies somethin'. Turns out it was just a tumbleweed wearin' a funny hat, but Jedediah, he yells, "Water! I see water!" gave me the gumption to crawl a few more yards, and that's what broke the spell. And in the shade of a rock, by all things there was a pool of rainwater, and we were saved. It might have been the water that kept me alive, but it was Jedediah's fool notion that there was water that saved my life. That's what a pard will do for you, see? He'll believe in the impossible, even when you don't. And that, friend, is worth more than all the gold in California.
