Brigham, ah yes, Brigham. One might say he was a bit like a desert dust devil – kicking up a fuss and settling right down again, all in a matter of moments. A man of considerable heft, both in spirit and circumference, he was. Reminded me somewhat of a well-fed riverboat captain, only instead of piloting steamboats up the Mississippi, he was guiding a whole dang flock of Mormons across alkali flats and mountains enough to give a burro indigestion. He spoke with a conviction that could convince a coyote to fetch water, and his beard, well, it was a thing of legend. Looked like a tangled fishing net woven by angels with a penchant for tobacco juice.

Now, I ain't saying he was always right. Lord knows, sometimes his pronouncements sounded like they'd been dreamed up after a particularly hearty supper of beans and rattlesnake. But you couldn't fault the man's ambition. He took a barren wasteland, a place where even the jackrabbits looked disheartened, and turned it into a… well, a less barren wasteland with irrigation ditches. Some folks whispered he was a tyrant, ruled with an iron fist wrapped in homespun. Others claimed he was a saint, divinely guided by the Lord himself. Me? I figured he was just a shrewd businessman with a talent for delegation and a whole lotta people willing to follow him.

He had a knack for attracting wives, too, which always struck me as an impressive, albeit complicated, feat. More wives than you could shake a stick at, they said. Must have been a regular hive of activity in his house, like a saloon on payday, only instead of drunken miners, you had a whole gaggle of ladies sorting laundry and making jam. It made you wonder, did he ever get their names mixed up? "Martha, dear, please fetch me my hat... or was it Mildred? No matter, just bring me the darned hat!" But, I suppose, when you’re trying to build Zion in the middle of nowhere, a little domestic chaos is just the price you pay. He wasn't afraid to be a tough man if the situation called for it, but he was a fair man at heart. And with him, the West wouldn't be the same, even if it was just a touch more irrigated.
