Now, Morgan, there was a specimen. A feller you wouldn't forget, even if you tried to knock the memory clean out with a sledgehammer and a bottle of rotgut whiskey – and lord knows, some folks tried. He wasn’t much to look at, being built something like a scarecrow after a particularly rough dust storm; all elbows and knees and a complexion that suggested a long-standing feud with soap and water. But bless your soul, that man had an ambition that could singe the whiskers off a badger. He arrived in these parts – this godforsaken patch of Nevada where the jackrabbits wear goggles to keep the dust out – riding a swaybacked mule that looked older than Methuselah and carrying a carpetbag stuffed with dreams that were apparently too delicate to survive the journey intact. He claimed he was going to make his fortune in silver, which was a laugh considering he couldn't tell silver from a coyote dropping unless it was pointed out to him with a detailed diagram and a notarized affidavit.

He tried his hand at everything, that Morgan did. Prospecting, of course, which mostly consisted of him whacking rocks with a pickaxe and hollering at them to reveal their precious secrets. Farming, a venture doomed from the start when he mistook fertilizer for flour and baked a batch of biscuits that could shatter glass. And even, for a brief and terrifying period, barbering, during which he managed to shear off half the sheriff's mustache and nearly scalped old Mrs. Higgins. Each failure was met with the same unwavering optimism, the same wide-eyed declaration that “next time will be the charm!” which, frankly, became more irritating than a swarm of mosquitos at a picnic. The thing is, you couldn't rightly dislike him. He was too honest, too earnest in his foolishness. He had a way of looking at the world, not with intelligence, mind you, but with a kind of hopeful simplicity that made you believe, just for a moment, that maybe, just maybe, he really would strike it rich. Even if he was more likely to strike a rattlesnake with his pickaxe and end up six feet under, covered in fertilizer biscuits.
