Slade, now there was a fellow cut from the very cloth of the frontier, woven with equal threads of bluster and blood. He was, by all accounts, a terror to behold, a man who'd sooner settle a dispute with a Colt than a compromise. I've heard tell, and I wouldn't put it past him, that he once shot a man for snoring too loud in a saloon—though the details, as with most frontier yarns, are likely embellished with a liberal dose of whiskey and imagination. He had that sort of face, you see, the kind that suggests he'd seen more sunrises than settlements, more gunfights than graces. A face etched with the hard lines of experience, like a topographical map of every misdeed he’d ever committed.

They made him a judge out there in Montana, a proposition as laughable as appointing a rattlesnake as a babysitter. Said they needed someone tough, someone who wouldn't be bullied by claim jumpers and desperadoes. I reckon they got what they asked for, and then some. Slade dispensed justice with the impartiality of a hurricane, tearing through the fabric of the law with a gleeful disregard for precedent or procedure. More often than not, the "trial" consisted of Slade delivering a stern talking-to followed by the accused being summarily escorted out of town with a boot to the backside. And sometimes, well, sometimes the escort involved a pine box.

He ran the place with an iron fist and a silver tongue, a bizarre combination that somehow kept the peace, after a fashion. Of course, that peace was more akin to a tense ceasefire than genuine tranquility. The townsfolk lived under his rule with a mixture of fear and grudging respect, much like a mule tolerates its master. It wasn't a perfect system, mind you, but out there in the wilds, perfect was a luxury nobody could afford. Slade was a flawed instrument, perhaps, but in a land where the alternatives were anarchy or worse, he was the best damn flawed instrument they had. He was a necessary evil, a devil you knew, and in the grand scheme of the frontier, that sometimes made all the difference.
