Now, Morgan, that feller was a curious specimen, a genuine article of humanity, if you can call a man who spent more time wrestling with ledgers than wrestling with common sense "human." He arrived in these parts looking like a freshly plucked rooster, all feathers and nervous energy, yammering about "synergies" and "leveraged growth," words that sounded suspiciously like curses to the honest prospectors who'd come here for gold, not vocabulary lessons. He was thinner than a dime novel and sharper than a badger's tooth, with eyes that could spot a loophole in a buffalo hide at fifty paces. He claimed to be a financier, though the only finances most folks around here were interested in involved the price of whiskey and the odds at the next cockfight. He attempted to get into gold mining but got himself into more trouble.

He was perpetually dressed in a suit that looked like it had been tailored by a blind tailor using only a butter knife and a bad memory. It was usually covered in dust or, on one particularly unfortunate occasion, guano from a bat colony he’d mistakenly wandered into while attempting to "optimize" a cave for ore production. Never mind that the bats had been working that cave for millennia, optimizing it far better than Morgan ever could. He tried to get miners to use new equipment but the results were poor as the machines were new to them and kept causing problems for the miners, a bunch of broken machinery from machines they don't know how to use.

Still, you couldn't help but admire the tenacity of the man. He was like a burr, sticking to you despite all your best efforts to shake him off. He’d argue with a mule over the proper way to bray and then try to sell the mule shares in a nonexistent silver mine. And Lord help you if you ever got him started on the virtues of compound interest. He’d drone on about it until your ears bled and your eyes glazed over, leaving you wishing you’d just confessed to robbing the stagecoach. Even though he couldn't find water in a rainstorm, there was something strangely compelling about the fellow. He was a walking, talking testament to the fact that you could be both incredibly brilliant and profoundly foolish all at the same time. A true marvel of the American West, even if he was a bit of a chucklehead.
