Now, this Colosseum, mind you, is no ordinary amphitheater suitable for traveling circuses and dogfights. No sir, this is the granddaddy of them all, a veritable mountain of brick and stone flung up by the Caesars to, as they say, entertain the populace. Entertain, indeed! Seems to me their idea of entertainment involved a lot of roaring lions, chaps with rather flimsy swords, and an awful lot of blood. One might argue that a good puppet show and a plate of pasta would have been equally entertaining, and considerably less messy, but who am I to question the judgment of emperors? Though, frankly, most emperors I've read about seem about as sharp as a bag of wet sand.

They say thousands of men and beasts met their end within those hallowed, or rather, blood-soaked, walls. It’s a sobering thought, I reckon, especially if you happened to be one of those men or beasts. And the noise! Imagine the roar of the crowd, the clang of steel, the desperate cries of the soon-to-be-departed. It must have been something akin to a political rally, only with more direct and immediate consequences for failure. You could bet your bottom dollar that no senator ever received such a decisive booing as a gladiator failing to impress the emperor.

Now, the Colosseum today? Well, it's a bit worse for wear, I must say. Time and tourists have taken their toll. Half of it seems to be missing, pilfered for building materials, no doubt. One can picture some shrewd Roman contractor thinking, “Hmm, that bit of marble would look splendid in my new villa.” And who could blame him, really? Waste not, want not, as my dear old aunt Matilda used to say, although I suspect she never had occasion to dismantle an ancient amphitheater. But still, even in its dilapidated state, the Colosseum has a certain… grandeur. A testament to the peculiar tastes and ambitions of a long-gone empire. A place where they truly knew how to put on a show, albeit a rather savage one. One can only imagine the stories the stones themselves could tell, if they weren’t so ruddy quiet all the time.
