Well, I never did rightly cotton to the notion of ice being considered a river, not like the Mississippi, anyhow, which offers you the courtesy of floating you along at a brisk clip, whilst you observe the scenery and ponder on life’s little ironies. This glacier, why, it's a sight slower than a Missouri mule on a Sunday morning, and considerably colder, besides. They tell you it moves, and I suppose it does, the way a feller changes his mind about politics – gradual, and mostly imperceptible unless you're paying very close attention, and who has the time for that? This one, perched up here in the Alps like some grand, frozen pudding abandoned by the angels after a picnic, is a marvel, I grant you, in a cold, indifferent sort of way.

It’s a hulking great thing, all crevasses and groans and the occasional little waterfall where the sun takes a fancy to nibble at the edges. And the blue! You'd think someone had taken a fancy for an enormous piece of sky and shoved it beneath a magnifying glass. The locals, of course, treat it with the respect due to a slightly senile old uncle who also happens to own the bank. They’ll tell you stories of its power, how it grinds down mountains and reshapes the land, and I’m sure it does, eventually. You’d have to be patient, mind you, and willing to wait a geological era or two to see the full effect.

Of course, there are those who claim the glacier is shrinking, and that's the kind of gossip I find more interesting. Turns out, it seems that even a mountain of ice can't stand the heat, not even if it's Swiss heat, which is to say not very potent at all. So perhaps one day, it'll vanish altogether, leaving behind just a big, muddy scar and a lot of disappointed tourists. But until then, I shall admire its icy immensity, and keep a safe distance. And I shall be sure to keep a bit of whiskey handy, too. In case, you understand, it should suddenly decide to pick up the pace and come rivering down the valley. A gentleman ought to be prepared for anything, even glacial acceleration.
