Harris, now there's a man whose pockets, I reckon, were deeper than the Mississippi after a good spring flood. Not in coin, mind you, though he always seemed to manage a respectable showing when the hat was passed around at the Temperance meeting. No, Harris's true wealth resided in his unshakeable conviction that he knew more than the doctor, the preacher, and the patent medicine salesman all rolled into one suspiciously oily package. He possessed a confidence, a sheer, unadulterated brass-necked gall, that could move mountains – if mountains were susceptible to long-winded speeches and poorly-drawn diagrams sketched in the dust with a stick.

I once saw him trying to explain the principles of hydraulic pressure to a mule. The poor beast just kept twitching its ears and swatting flies, clearly unimpressed by Harris’s gesticulations and analogies involving watermelons and leaky buckets. Harris, of course, took this as a sign of the mule’s intellectual inadequacy, proclaiming it “a prime example of the decline of learning in the animal kingdom.” He was always diagnosing things, too. A cough was invariably consumption, a headache a sign of impending brain fever, and a stray cat's meow an unmistakable omen of imminent disaster. He could predict the weather with astonishing inaccuracy, usually blaming his faulty barometer on "the insidious influence of sunspots" or "magnetic anomalies induced by the passage of comets unseen by the common eye." And yet, for all his pronouncements and puffed-up pronouncements, and the general air of knowing more than God Himself, Harris was fundamentally harmless. He was a windbag, a bore, perhaps even a monumental fool, but he was *our* windbag, our bore, our monumental fool. And the town wouldn't have been the same, nor quite as entertaining, without him and his peculiar brand of confidently delivered nonsense. Besides, he usually bought the first round, and even the smartest amongst us were willing to suffer a little bit of foolish talk for the sake of a cold beer on a hot afternoon.
