Higbie, now there was a specimen. A man forged, I reckon, in the very bowels of perversity and lacquered with a sort of innocent bewilderment that could convince a preacher he’d swallowed a hymnal by mistake. He was one of them fellows who could, with a straight face, sell you a map to the moon printed on a used coffee filter and then apologize for the filter being a tad stained. He wasn't necessarily dishonest, mind you, it was more like honesty was just a concept he hadn't quite gotten around to fully comprehending. You see, he'd always be on the verge of some grand discovery that would eclipse even the Comstock lode itself. The latest scheme was always “just about to pan out,” and the next investment would be “the one to make us millionaires, Twain, mark my words!”. He’d show up with dirt on his boots and a twinkle in his eye, ready to spin a yarn about a lost Spanish mine he'd stumbled upon whilst chasing a particularly stubborn jackrabbit across the desert. The claim, of course, was only attainable if we pooled our resources immediately and procured a rather specific, and unusually expensive, shovel fashioned out of pure molybdenum. 

And he never had a cent, of course. Always just a step behind fortune, like a hound perpetually nipping at the heels of a fleeting ghost. One time, he swore he'd discovered a new species of frog that secreted gold. Spent a whole week chasing those confounded amphibians across the Nevada landscape, only to find out they were just regular old bullfrogs that had rolled around in a particularly dusty patch of the desert. Yet, Higbie, bless his deluded heart, saw it as only a slight setback, a mere detour on the road to untold riches. He was, in his own peculiar way, a living, breathing embodiment of the Nevada spirit. Always chasing a dream, even if that dream was demonstrably, spectacularly, and hilariously unattainable. You couldn't help but admire the sheer audacity of the man, even while you were reaching for your wallet to make sure he hadn't already filched a dollar or two to fund his latest fantastical enterprise.
