Now, concerning these mosques, or "mahometan meeting-houses," as I'm inclined to call 'em for the sake of plain speaking, I reckon I've seen a fair share in my travels, mostly in them outlandish lands where folks seem to favor bowing and scraping towards Mecca five times a day. They're curious structures, these mosques, often bristling with minarets like a porcupine with quills, reaching for the heavens as if trying to grab ahold of something up there – maybe a stray cloud, or perhaps a little common sense. The interiors, mind you, are generally bare as a billiard ball, save for carpets thick enough to swallow a small child whole and enough geometric patterns to make your head spin faster than a politician dodging a straight question. I’ve always suspected they’re trying to hypnotize you with those dizzying designs, lull you into a state of agreeable piety. 

What strikes a fella, though, is the earnestness of the worshipers. They file in, solemn as a judge handing down a life sentence, and prostrate themselves with a fervor that could probably move mountains, if mountains were susceptible to religious zeal. All this mumbling and bowing, I reckon, would make a Baptist preacher feel right at home, save for the language difference, of course. And the hats. Oh, the hats! Fezzes, turbans, kufis – enough headgear to outfit a small army of haberdashers. It's quite a show, really, a grand spectacle of devotion. One almost expects a curtain to rise and a troupe of dancing dervishes to burst forth, but alas, it's mostly just quiet prayer, which, to be honest, can be a bit of a letdown for a fellow expecting a bit more razzle-dazzle. Still, can’t fault 'em for their dedication, even if I do find myself scratching my head and wondering if all that bowing doesn't cause a fella a crick in the neck after a while. Seems to me, standing up straight might be just as good of a way to get the Almighty's attention. But what do I know? I'm just a simple traveler, passing through, taking notes, and trying not to step on anyone's prayer rug.
