Now, Higbie, there was a specimen, a regular fossilized curiosity chipped right out of the primordial chaos. He hailed from down yonder in the solemn state of Maine, a place, I reckon, so densely populated with pine trees and piety that a man with a lick of humor was as rare as a hen's tooth. Higbie, however, had managed to escape this fate, though whether by divine providence or sheer cussedness, I couldn't rightly say. He arrived in the mines with a pickaxe on his shoulder and a story for every occasion, most of 'em as tangled as a spider's web and about as likely to hold water. He claimed to have wrestled grizzlies, sailed 'round the Horn, and once, if you believed him, single-handedly prevented a flood in the Mississippi by plugging the levee with his own considerable posterior.

Of course, no one believed a word of it. Still, Higbie had a way about him, a sort of innocent sincerity that made you want to believe, even when your common sense was screaming bloody murder. He could spin a yarn that'd make a preacher blush, and he'd deliver it with a straight face and eyes twinkling like stars on a frosty night. He was perpetually optimistic, too, convinced that the very next shovelful of dirt would reveal a vein of gold so rich, it'd make Croesus look like a pauper. Naturally, it never did, but that didn't dampen his spirits. He'd just dust off his britches, wink, and declare, "Well, boys, that's just a teaser! The real bonanza's right around the corner!" He was a bit of a fool, perhaps, but a likable fool, the kind you'd be happy to share a tin cup of lukewarm coffee with, even if he did try to convince you he was personally acquainted with the man in the moon. And truth be told, in a land as rough and tumble as the Nevada Territory, a little bit of Higbie's good-natured foolishness was a mighty welcome thing. It broke up the monotony of rock-breaking and dust-eating, and reminded us that even in the midst of all the hard work and disappointment, there was still room for a good laugh.
