Lucerne, now there's a town for you - perched right on the edge of that Lake of the Four Cantons, like a particularly stout matron airing her petticoats. Seems every guidebook paints it as a slice of heaven, what with its medieval walls and that dinky Chapel Bridge festooned with more painted panels than you can shake a walking stick at. And, bless their hearts, the tourists flock there, dutifully snapping photographs of swans so used to being fed crusts they’d likely bite your hand off if you offered them a perfectly respectable worm. I reckon they're thinking they’re capturing a memory, but I tell you, most of those pictures come out looking like every other picture of Lucerne, same swans, same mountains in the background lookin’ like a painted stage set. Still, can't fault a body for trying, can you? 

But Lucerne, well, it's got a certain… seriousness about it. You get the feelin’ that if you let loose a hearty belly laugh, the mountains would frown and the lake would ripple in disapproval. It's a place for ponderin', for contemplatin’ the weight of history, for admiring all that charming Swiss efficiency, and of course, for buyin’ watches – more watches per square foot than you'd find in a watchmaker's daydream. I did once see a fellow trying to haggle over the price of a cuckoo clock. Lord, you’d think he was trying to sell the fellow his own grandmother! The Swiss, you see, they don't much care for bargains. They're convinced, and rightly so, that they’ve got something worth paying for, even if it does just tell you the time, punctuated by a small bird popping out to yell. It's all rather impressive, I suppose, this insistence on precision and quality. Though I secretly suspect they keep all the good humor locked up tighter than those watch cases they're so proud of. All in all, Lucerne is a pleasant enough place to visit, but don't expect it to tickle your funny bone. It’s more the kind of place that would politely suggest you lower your voice and admire the scenery, which, to be fair, is pretty darn picturesque, even if it has seen better days.
