Gibraltar, they call it. A most curious excrescence upon the Iberian Peninsula, like a misplaced molar stubbornly clinging to the gums of Spain. One imagines some colossal, geological dentist, distracted by a particularly fetching señorita, simply forgot to yank the stony thing clean away. And what a tooth it is, bless my soul! A veritable mountain, crammed cheek-by-jowl with more history than a doddering professor’s mind could recall after a particularly potent bottle of sherry. The whole affair bristles with cannons, like a grumpy old badger bristling with quills, all pointed seaward, lest some continental scalliwag dares to fancy a piece of it. These cannons, mind you, mostly antique and rather dusty, are nonetheless manned by soldiers so impeccably turned out, so crisply British in their bearing, that one almost expects them to offer a spot of tea to any approaching armada.

And the apes! Ah, the apes of Gibraltar! A brazen lot, these Barbary macaques, utterly lacking in decorum and quite devoid of any sense of personal space. They saunter about the place like local dignitaries, demanding tribute from tourists in the form of peanuts and purloined sandwiches. I witnessed one particularly audacious fellow snatch a chap’s spectacles right off his nose, then proceed to groom himself with them, convinced, no doubt, that they were some sort of ingenious grooming device. They say that as long as the apes remain, so shall the British, a prophecy that sounds suspiciously like something concocted by a particularly imaginative innkeeper trying to boost his trade. Still, one cannot help but admire their tenacity, their utter lack of respect for authority, and their general air of “we were here first, so you can jolly well deal with it.” The entire place, in truth, is a glorious, improbable absurdity, a tiny rock crammed with stubborn history, obstreperous apes, and enough stiff upper lips to furnish a dozen London drawing rooms. One departs, bewildered, amused, and faintly convinced that the world is, indeed, a far stranger place than one had previously given it credit for.
