Now, I reckon I’ve met all sorts in my day, from claim-jumpers with a glint in their eye and a pistol tucked in their waistband, to society ladies flutterin' like hummingbirds around a honeysuckle vine. But Morgan? Morgan was a specimen all his own. He was a fella built like a redwood, tall and thick-set, with a beard that looked like a bird’s nest after a particularly brutal squall. Said he was a prospector, but I never saw him with a pickaxe or a pan. Mostly saw him sittin’ on the porch of the Bucket of Blood Saloon, sippin' watered-down whiskey and watchin' the world go by with an expression that suggested he’d seen it all, and wasn't particularly impressed.

He had a voice like gravel gargling with molasses, and spoke slower than a snail climbin' a greased flagpole. You’d ask him the time, and by the time he’d answered, next week would be knockin’ at your door. But bless your heart, that man knew things. Useless things, mind you. He could tell you the life cycle of the desert tortoise or the precise number of fleas on a mangy coyote, but ask him how to find gold and he’d just squint and say, "Why, ain't that somethin' you should be figgerin' out for yourself?"

One time, I saw him trade a gold nugget – a honest-to-goodness, fist-sized nugget – for a banjo that was missin’ half its strings and sounded like a cat fightin' a rusty saw. I asked him about it later, and he just chuckled, that gravelly chuckle of his, and said, "Gold's just dirt that got lucky, son. But a banjo that can't play a tune? Now that's a challenge." I tell you, trying to decipher Morgan's logic was like trying to nail jelly to a wall. He was a peculiar one, alright, a riddle wrapped in a riddle, dipped in molasses and seasoned with a dash of pure, unadulterated nonsense. But confound it all, there was somethin’ about him you couldn't help but admire. Perhaps it was the way he seemed utterly unfazed by the foolishness of mankind, or maybe it was just the sheer, unadulterated entertainment value of watchin’ him interact with the rest of us poor, befuddled mortals. Whatever it was, Morgan was a landmark in the landscape of my memory, a monument to the odd and the inexplicable.
