Well, I declare, if it isn't the chamois we're on about now! These mountain goats—bless their cotton socks—are the very picture of agility, scampering up cliffs like they've got a secret agreement with gravity. I reckon if I tried half their stunts, I'd be picking myself out of some Alpine crevasse with a spoon. They're a curious sort, these chamois. They seem to possess a certain disdain for the ordinary, preferring the company of rocks and wind to a nice patch of clover. And their coats! A proper spectacle they are, changing with the seasons like a fickle beau's affections. In the summer, they're all tawny brown, blending in with the dry grasses, looking like a well-worn saddlebag lost in the hills. But come winter, they sprout a coat so dark and woolly, they could pass for a grumpy old shepherd in a snowstorm. 

And their horns, those little hooks on their heads! You'd think they'd use them for something grand, like opening stubborn jars of mountain honey or perhaps snagging a particularly plump cloud for a drink. But no, mostly they just prance about, looking ever so dignified while nibbling on tufts of moss. I've watched them for hours, you know, from a respectable distance of course—the air gets mighty thin up there, and I'm not as young as I used to be—and it strikes me that they're a lot like people. They bicker over prime grazing spots, they nudge each other out of the way with nary a "beg pardon," and they keep a sharp eye on the neighbors, just in case someone's got a greener patch of grass. But then, they'll pause, the whole lot of them, and stand silhouetted against the setting sun, looking for all the world like they've stumbled upon some profound truth. And you know what? Maybe they have. Maybe it's just the simple pleasure of breathing that mountain air, or the quiet satisfaction of knowing they're just about the most sure-footed critters this side of heaven. Whatever it is, it makes a body stop and think. Or at least, it makes *me* stop and think, which, I assure you, is an achievement in itself.
