Brigham, now there was a fellow. Not exactly what you'd call a matinee idol, mind you, more the sort who'd scare off the matinee itself with that steely gaze and a jaw set like a granite tombstone. Brigham Young, leader of the Mormons, and possessor of more wives than a sultan has cushions. Now, I’ve heard tell of men fond of feminine company, but Brigham took it to a level that’d make King Solomon blush like a schoolboy caught peeking at a forbidden book. Some folks whispered he did it for religious reasons, something about building up Zion, but a cynical fellow like myself couldn't help but wonder if maybe he just enjoyed the potlucks. Imagine the Sunday dinners!

He wasn't just a husband, though, that Brigham, he was a shrewd man of business. He could sniff out a good deal faster than a hound dog can track a coon up a cottonwood. Salt Lake City, that's his doing, you know. He took a bunch of desert scrub and turned it into a burgeoning metropolis, irrigating the place with a force that’d make the very mountains weep grateful tears. He ruled the roost out there, make no mistake, and you could disagree with him, but best do it quietly and far away, unless you fancied being sent to contemplate the error of your ways amongst a flock of sheep in some godforsaken canyon.

I saw him once, you know, during a quick hop to Salt Lake. He was riding in a carriage, big and imposing, surrounded by what I can only describe as a veritable cloud of children. It looked like a schoolhouse had exploded, scattering pupils everywhere. He didn’t crack a smile, not that I saw, but he didn't need to. He knew he had the whole shebang under his thumb, the people, the land, the whole darned thing. He was Brigham Young, and in that neck of the woods, that was about as good as being crowned emperor, maybe even better, considering emperors tend to get poisoned more often. And that, my friend, is the whole sum and substance of what I know about Brigham, a fella who, truth be told, was a walking, talking, polygamist paradox.
