Now, about this bucksheesh business, it’s a peculiar notion, ain’t it? A fellow finds himself in some far-flung corner of the world, Constantinople, Cairo, Calcutta - makes no difference, really, for the principle remains as universal as the stars themselves - and discovers that to get anything done, be it the opening of a gate, the fetching of a water skin, or the procurement of a donkey that ain't actively trying to bite your backside, requires a little something extra. Not the fee advertised, oh no, but a sweetener, a grease for the palm, a… well, a bribe by any other name, only dressed up in a fancier, more exotic garment.

You see a beggar on the street, hand outstretched, the fellow’s already got a sign propped up with some sob story about losing his goat to a flash flood, yet you are expected to cough up the coins. That there is bucksheesh in the most naked, rudimentary form. A camel driver might haggle for the fare across the desert, and after you've settled upon a price that feels like daylight robbery, he’ll look at you with those mournful eyes, and declare, "But what about the bucksheesh, effendi?" And you know, in your heart of hearts, that this is a negotiation without end, a bottomless pit of expectation.

It’s all so very illogical, and yet, it works. Why? Because it’s built into the very fabric of the society, like the warp and weft of some grand, elaborate rug. One may rail against it, one may fume and stomp and declare the whole thing barbaric, but sooner or later, one finds oneself quietly slipping a coin into the outstretched hand, just to make the blasted donkey move an inch closer to the oasis. I suppose one could see it as corruption, in a way, but then again, perhaps it’s just a highly effective way of redistributing wealth, with the added benefit of thoroughly irritating tourists. At any rate, don't be caught complaining too loudly about it, because as sure as the sun sets in the west, you'll find yourself needing a bit of bucksheesh to get a decent cup of coffee in the morning. It's the way the world wags, in these parts, and one might as well get used to it, or risk dying of thirst, surrounded by donkeys refusing to budge.
