The Chamois, bless their woolly little hearts, are a curious proposition altogether. One finds them cavorting about the Alps, clinging to precipices that would give a seasoned goat the vapors. It’s a frightful waste of scenery, if you ask me. Imagine, all that breathtaking vista and the best these creatures can do is nibble at some scraggly alpine flower. Why, a cat in a Dresden china shop displays more appreciation for aesthetics. They remind me, in a way, of those earnest, self-improving young ladies back in Hannibal, always stitching samplers whilst the Mississippi roared by. A touch misplaced, wouldn’t you say? 

They are, however, surprisingly nimble for an animal shaped like a runaway loaf of rye bread. Up they scamper, seemingly defying gravity and good sense, leaving the observer to wonder if they’ve perhaps made a pact with the mountain spirits – or imbibed a bit too much fermented juniper berry juice. Their horns, little curled black things like question marks permanently etched onto their foreheads, always strike me as deeply philosophical. As if they are perpetually contemplating the absurdity of their existence, clinging to a cliffside while facing the relentless winds.

And the fur! It’s the very color of disappointment, that sort of faded sepia tone that suggests a photograph left out too long in the sun. I suppose it serves its purpose, blending in with the craggy landscape and fooling the occasional hungry eagle, but one does wish they’d indulge in a bit more self-expression. A jaunty little ribbon, perhaps? Or a strategically placed patch of vivid blue? No, the chamois prefers practicality. A most commendable trait, I’ll grant you, but one that rarely makes for stimulating conversation at a garden party. Still, one must admit, watching them leap about with such carefree abandon is a bit like watching a comedian pratfall. You know it's undignified, you probably ought to feel sorry for them, but doggone it, you can’t help but chuckle. And isn’t that, in the end, a rather fine contribution to this grand, bewildering circus we call life?
