Ballou, that singular specimen of misplaced humanity, he arrived in these here parts looking like he’d been poured into his clothes and forgot to say “when.” A lanky scarecrow of a fellow, all elbows and knees, and a face that looked like it had been carved from a particularly knotty piece of pine by a fella who’d had a mite too much rotgut whiskey. He claimed to be a lawyer, fresh from some fancy Eastern college, which I reckoned meant he knew how to argue a point till the cows came home, even if he didn’t know which end of the cow the milk came from. Lord, he was greener than a field of newly sprouted alfalfa.

He’d come out West, he said, seeking adventure and fortune, which was akin to saying he was hoping to strike gold by tripping over it. I suspected he was more likely to strike a rattlesnake, and given his general cluelessness, he’d probably try to reason with it. He carried a trunk full of books, mind you, enough to build a small but rather useless fort, but precious little common sense. You could tell he’d never been farther West than Hoboken, and likely thought a jackrabbit was some kind of exotic Eastern pet.

He took to wearing those city-slicker suits of his, even when he was mucking out the stables, which provided the local buzzards with a fresh new target, they'd never seen a peacock on a horse before. He was a persistent sort, though, like a burr under a saddle blanket. Always asking questions, always trying to learn, even if he never quite managed to grasp the realities of frontier life. He’d ask about the difference between a grizzly and a black bear, then promptly go off and try to pet one. Bless his heart, he was a walking, talking comedy, a source of endless amusement to the seasoned veterans of the wild West, a man so utterly out of place that he might as well have landed from the moon. Still, there was a certain charm to his naivete, like a stray puppy that just won’t leave you alone, even when you wish it would. He was our Ballou, and we wouldn't trade him for a dozen experienced men, purely because he was the only one who could make us laugh so hard we forgot about the dust and the danger, at least for a little while.
