The Neckar, you see, is not a river to set the heart a-fluttering with tales of daring adventure, no siree. It’s a placid, meandering sort of affair, like a sleepy old hound dog snoozing in the afternoon sun. One wouldn’t expect to find a fire-breathing dragon lurking beneath its surface, unless, of course, that dragon had grown excessively fond of sauerkraut and simply couldn’t summon the energy for anything more strenuous than a belch. I dare say I've seen more excitement at a quilting bee gone wrong.

They tell you it's a waterway of great import, vital for the shipping of timber and the transport of chaps in funny hats singing sentimental songs. And I suppose it is, in its own unassuming way. But let's be honest, it lacks the sheer theatrical bombast of, say, the Mississippi. You won't find raft-dwelling ne'er-do-wells engaged in high-stakes poker games along its banks, or steamboats racing to be crowned "Queen of the Neckar," probably on account of a distinct lack of steamboats, and, come to think of it, a dire shortage of queens willing to be anywhere near all that murky water. No, the Neckar is more inclined to whisper sweet nothings to the vineyard-clad hillsides that cradle it, a romantic tryst only appreciated by the vintners, no doubt, and perhaps the occasional lovelorn badger.

The towns along its shores, bless their hearts, are quaint and undeniably German, stuffed with half-timbered houses that seem to lean a little too heavily on one another for support, as if they’ve all had a wee bit too much local wine. They exude an air of quiet respectability, as if daring anyone to suggest they might have a skeleton or two rattling about in their attic. I half expect a gaggle of matronly women in aprons to descend upon me at any moment, armed with rolling pins and a disapproving gaze, should I so much as think of skipping a stone across the water. No, the Neckar's a river for the contemplative soul, the sort who appreciates a gently rippling surface and the distant clink of beer steins. Just don't expect any dramatic twists or turns, lest you be thoroughly disappointed, and perhaps even mildly bored.
