Now, about this portier, which the other creatures call a “door curtain,” though why they don’t just say so and be done with it is a puzzlement worthy of the Sphinx. I first laid eyes on one in the new garden cottage, a flamboyant affair of velvet and tassels, hanging betwixt what I reckon are supposed to be rooms. Adam, bless his simple heart, stares at it as if it were some new species of creeping vine, only less useful, seeing as you can’t eat it or weave it into a respectable loincloth. He touched it tentatively, then jumped back as if expecting it to bite. Men, I tell you. Always needing an explanation for the obvious. 

It seems to me, this portier is mostly for show. It don’t keep out the weather, not like a proper wall. Nor does it keep out the animals, seeing as I can just walk right through it, and have, more than once. No, it just sort of…hangs there. Like a fancy cobweb designed to trip you up when you're in a hurry. I suspect the angels, ever fond of a bit of frippery, convinced the Creator it was necessary for “decoration.” And what is “decoration,” pray tell? It's nothing more than a way to make something plain look less plain, and to distract your attention from the important things, like finding a ripe fig or scratching that spot right behind my ear. 

Adam insists it keeps the draft down. Draft! As if a little breeze ever hurt anyone! Back in the old cave, we had drafts aplenty, and we turned out fine. Well, mostly fine. He uses it as a sort of privacy shield, I suppose, when he's carving those little wooden statues of me, which, I must admit, is rather flattering, even if they do make my nose look a bit too big. All in all, I'd wager this portier is another one of those things that man will fuss and fret over, cleaning and smoothing it, trying to figure out its purpose, when all it really is is a piece of cloth with a fancy name, dangling there like a question mark, whispering, "Are you not entertained?" And frankly, between you and me, I am not. Give me a good, sturdy tree trunk to lean against any day.
