Brigham, now there's a name that could curdle milk faster than a desert wind. Why, Brigham Young was a feller who could populate a territory faster than jackrabbits after a spring rain. He arrived in this desolate, alkali-ridden valley, mind you, a place where a buzzard would pack a lunch before flying over, and declared it Zion! Well, bless his optimistic soul, he did. And then, wouldn't you know it, folks started flocking in like moths to a kerosene lamp, all eager to build their version of paradise on what was essentially a salt flat. He was a practical sort, Brigham, no doubt about it. Believed in irrigation, hard work, and having enough wives to run a small army. It's said he could keep all those ladies straight, too, which I reckon is a feat of memory that would make a Philadelphia lawyer green with envy. Some folks called him a tyrant, others a prophet. Depends, I suppose, if you were one of the favored wives or a poor soul trying to argue about water rights.

He built that city, Salt Lake, out of practically nothing, coaxing crops from the barren earth and organizing everything with the precision of a Swiss watch. Not that I'm entirely sure he knew what a Swiss watch was, him being from Vermont and all, but you get the idea. Still, you couldn't deny he had a knack for getting things done, even if his methods weren't always…conventional. He even tried to invent a new alphabet, the Deseret Alphabet, figuring that English was too darn complicated for the average Joe. Now, that was a project that went over like a lead balloon, proving that even a man with a hundred wives couldn’t force people to learn a whole new way of writing. But, bless his hide, he tried. And that, I suppose, is the gist of Brigham. A man of contradictions, a leader of multitudes, a visionary with a stubborn streak a mile wide. He took a patch of worthless land and turned it into something, something remarkable and peculiar, just like him. And that, you see, is the kind of character that makes the West worth writing about, even if it means stretching the truth a bit, for flavor.
