Well, I found myself, did I, perched up in this Chamonix contraption, what they call the Aiguille du Midi – needle of the south, if you please. A name so poetic, you’d think angels themselves stitched it into the heavens. More likely, some ambitious goatherd, after a particularly potent cheese, imagined it so. The air, thin enough to make a bishop swear, and colder than a mother-in-law’s glare, did lend a certain dramatic flair to the proceedings. Now, mind you, getting up here was an adventure in itself. One of those boxy little cable cars, crammed full of humanity like sardines in a tin, only instead of oil, we were slathered in varying degrees of nervous perspiration. I believe I even overheard a stout gentleman, sporting a magnificent walrus mustache, murmur something about needing a dram of brandy and a good lawyer – just in case.

The view, of course, was advertised as being “breathtaking.” Which is a fine sentiment, if you don't mind being out of breath. The glaciers, sprawling down like colossal, frozen rivers, did possess a certain grandeur. But I confess, after the initial novelty wore off, they started to resemble nothing so much as dirty snowdrifts desperately in need of a good sweep. And the climbers, clinging to those icy slopes like flies on a honey pot, I watched them with a peculiar mixture of admiration and pity. Admiring their fortitude, naturally, but pitying their questionable sanity. Spending your vacation hanging off a mountain by your fingernails? Surely, there are more agreeable ways to court rheumatism. And the tourists! Heavens, the tourists. Clacking about in their fashionable footwear, snapping pictures of anything that didn’t move and most things that did, chattering about the cost of the fondue back in town. It was enough to make one long for the quiet solitude of a bustling New York saloon. Yes, Chamonix. A place of majestic heights and staggering prices, where the air is thin and the crowds are… well, thick. A lesson, perhaps, that even the most beautiful vistas are improved with a comfortable armchair and a large glass of something suitably fortifying.
