Brigham, ah, Brigham! A spectacle he was, a regular leviathan amongst men. Not in the physical sense, mind you, though he carried himself with a gravity that could make a mountain quail. No, Brigham's heft was in his influence, his unshakeable conviction, and let's not forget, a rather impressive collection of wives. He surveyed his desert kingdom like a benevolent, if somewhat bewildered, proprietor, squinting at the struggling crops and the ever-present dust devils with an air that suggested he knew exactly how it would all turn out, though he kept the specifics to himself, likely for dramatic effect. He was a master of pronouncements, delivered in a slow, deliberate drawl that could convince a jackrabbit to volunteer for stew. He’d hold forth on the virtues of industry, the dangers of idleness, and the inscrutable will of Providence, all while managing to look as if he were merely pondering the proper shade of beige for the new Tabernacle.

I saw him once, inspecting a particularly recalcitrant irrigation ditch. He stood there, in his somber black suit, looking less like a prophet and more like a disgruntled undertaker whose best client had suddenly decided to live forever. He poked at the muddy bank with his cane, a gesture that seemed to imply that he could fix the whole darn thing with a single, well-placed curse if he felt so inclined. But he didn't. Instead, he offered a few cryptic remarks about the importance of "harmony with the land" and "the proper application of elbow grease," leaving the poor sod who actually had to fix the ditch scratching his head and wondering if he'd just received divine guidance or a particularly convoluted riddle. He was a character, alright, Brigham. A walking, talking enigma wrapped in a homespun suit, ruling a kingdom carved out of the wilderness with a combination of iron will, religious fervor, and a healthy dose of good old-fashioned Yankee ingenuity. You may not have always agreed with him, but you couldn't deny he was something to behold.
