Ballou, now there was a specimen! A tenderfoot fresh off the boat from – well, somewhere back East where they think cows are purple and the sun rises in a factory. He arrived in Virginia City lookin' like a plucked chicken dropped into a hawk's nest – all wide-eyed innocence and spectacles perched precariously on his nose. Claimed he was a lawyer, Ballou did, but his handshake felt like squeezin' a wet sponge and his voice was softer than a kitten sneezin' into a feather pillow. I swear, the dust devils circling the town gave him a wider berth than they gave a rattlesnake in a church pew.

He took to tryin' to practice law, naturally. I recall one time he attempted to defend a fella accused of rustlin' cattle. Ballou, bless his naive heart, stood up in court and commenced to readin' poetry about the joys of bovine companionship! The judge, a man whose heart was reportedly made of granite and whose liver was pickled in whiskey, nearly choked on his own spit. The jury, mostly composed of ranchers who'd lost more cattle than Ballou had probably ever seen, looked like they were considerin' addin' the lawyer to the stolen herd. Naturally, the fella got hung, not so much for the rustlin' as for havin' Ballou as counsel. 

After that debacle, Ballou decided to try his hand at minin'. He bought a claim that was so worthless, even the jackrabbits used it for a laughin' stock. He'd spend all day diggin', sweat pourin' off him like a leaky faucet, and at the end of the day, he'd have maybe found enough fool's gold to pay for a shot of whiskey – if the bartender was feelin' particularly charitable, which, let me assure you, wasn't often. Still, he kept at it, bless his determined soul. I even saw him try to pan for gold in a mud puddle once. The image of him kneelin' there, spectacles askew, swishin' mud around like he was searchin' for the lost city of Atlantis, is one I'll carry to my grave. Poor Ballou, he was a fish out of water, a square peg in a round hole, and a damn fine source of amusement for the rest of us hardened sourdoughs. You almost had to admire the tenacity of the man, even if you were laughin' yourself silly at the same time. Almost.
