Harris, now there's a specimen for the anthropological museum, if they ever get around to cataloging the genus *Homo Sapiens Balderdashious.* He's one of those fellows perpetually adrift on a sea of his own opinions, clinging to them like a drowning man to a rotten barrel stave. He’ll pontificate on matters of state with the same solemnity he applies to judging a pie-eating contest, and I suspect his expertise in both stems from equal depths of ignorance. Why, I once saw him argue with a steamboat captain about the proper way to navigate the Mississippi – Harris, who I’m fairly certain thought “aft” was some sort of debilitating foot ailment. The man has the uncanny ability to make the simplest statement sound like a pronouncement delivered from Mount Sinai, usually involving some convoluted reasoning that leaves you scratching your head and wondering if he’s accidentally swallowed a dictionary.

And bless his heart, he believes every word he utters! It’s a sincerity that borders on the ludicrous, like watching a dog trying to bury a bone on a marble floor. He'll launch into these elaborate narratives, embellishing and exaggerating until the original event is practically unrecognizable, a distant ancestor to the grand tapestry he's woven. I swear, if Harris were to recount the story of Noah’s Ark, he’d probably claim to have personally supervised the carpentry and advised Noah on the proper stowage of the penguins. And should you dare question the veracity of his tale, he’ll stare at you with the wounded look of a man whose virtue has been unjustly impugned, proceeding to defend his position with a tenacity that would make a bulldog jealous. He's a walking, talking, breathing encyclopedia of misinformation, cheerfully dispensing it like a benevolent, if somewhat misguided, physician doling out placebo pills. You can't help but feel a sort of grudging affection for him, though. He's as harmless as a bumblebee in January, a little noisy perhaps, and prone to the occasional sting of unfounded opinion, but ultimately, just a well-meaning, if gloriously misguided, soul.
