Them miners! A more peculiar lot ye never did see, and I’ve seen mule skinners argue politics with a burro. A feller could spend a lifetime scratchin’ his head tryin’ to figure ’em out, and still come up short a brain cell or two. First off, there was the matter of dress. You’d think a man wrestlin’ rocks and muck all day would favor somethin’ durable, sensible like, but no siree. They’d swagger about town on pay day, dolled up in velvet vests tighter than a tick on a hound dog, boots polished ‘til you could see your own foolish mug in ‘em, and a hat perched on their heads like a swallow gettin’ ready to fly. Then there was the language. Lord, they could swear the hinges off the very gates of perdition, and make it sound almost poetic. A simple “good mornin’,” from a miner could blossom into a ten-minute recitation on the evils of groundhogs and the perfidy of claim jumpers, all punctuated with enough cuss words to make a preacher faint clean away.

And the superstitions! Why, a man could hardly sneeze in a mine without causin’ a near riot. Some wouldn’t work on Fridays, others wouldn’t whistle underground for fear of disturbin’ the Tommyknockers (little gremlins who, they reckoned, caused cave-ins). And don’t even THINK about bringin’ a cat into the diggins. Bad luck, they’d declare, and about as welcome as a skunk at a Sunday social. But for all their eccentricities, their colorful cussin’ and peculiar beliefs, you had to admire their grit. They’d descend into those dark, suffocatin’ holes every day, gamblin’ their lives against the chance of strikin’ it rich. They were a rough bunch, no doubt, prone to brawlin’ and drinkin’, but underneath it all, they possessed a kind of rough-hewn honesty. A miner's word, once given, was generally as good as gold (which is saying somethin'!), and they looked out for one another, often sharin’ the little they had. They were the backbone of the West, these miners, flawed and funny, and without ‘em, I reckon, this whole blessed boomtown business would’ve never taken off.
