Now, Morgan, there was a specimen, a fella cut from a different bolt of cloth entirely, or maybe just a tapestry woven so badly it came out looking like a mule wearing a derby. He arrived in town with all the bluster of a July thunderstorm, announcing himself as a prospector, a miner of the purest sort, destined to pull fortunes from the very bowels of the earth. He had a beard, mind you, that could house a family of field mice, and a voice like gravel gargling whiskey – potent stuff, indeed. Claimed he'd wrestled bears in his youth and single-handedly diverted a river once, tales I took with a hefty grain of salt and a generous swig of saloon hooch. He bought the best mining gear, that he did, shiny and new like a banker's wife at a Sunday social, but his expertise seemed to reside more in admiring it than actually using it.

He staked a claim, oh yes, right near Widow Higgins’ prize-winning petunia patch, a location whose geological prospects were, to put it mildly, dubious. And then, for days, he’d sit. Just sit. Sometimes he'd poke the ground with a dainty little spade, the kind ladies use for planting posies, not the heftier variety fit for loosening stubborn rocks. Other times, he’d be deep in contemplation, staring at the sky as if awaiting instructions from the Almighty Himself on where to find the gold. The only thing he seemed to be prospecting for was shade from the sun and a comfortable spot for his backside. Now and then he’d "find" a pebble or two, declaring them specimens of unheard-of mineral value, only to toss them aside a minute later, apparently discovering they were, alas, just pebbles after all. The whole affair was a spectacle, a masterclass in the art of looking busy while accomplishing precisely nothing. One might have mistaken him for a philosopher, were it not for the ever-present cloud of dust swirling around him and the faint aroma of snake oil clinging to his threadbare coat. And yet, there was a certain charm to Morgan, a harmless sort of delusion that made him almost endearing. He was, in short, the kind of fellow who could make a jackass laugh, not from malice, but from a sheer appreciation of the absurdity of it all.
