Baden, they call it, and Baden it is, I suppose, though why they couldn’t have invented a name less repetitive, less like a dog barking “Bad! Bad!” at a miscreant sausage, is beyond my simple understanding. It’s a town built, seemingly, entirely of gambling chips and sulfurous springs. One goes to bathe, they say, to soak the rheumatiz out of one’s weary bones. Bah! I’ve seen gentlemen emerge from those “curative” waters looking less refreshed and more like boiled lobsters contemplating their mortality. They parade about in their bathrobes like demented Roman senators, puffing on cigars and discussing the odds of the roulette wheel, a pastime I find considerably more dangerous to the purse than any alleged ailment. The place is overrun with a peculiar breed of humanity – the leisure class, bless their empty skulls. They flit about like butterflies with gout, all silk and perfume and carefully cultivated ennui. One can hardly swing a cat, though I wouldn’t recommend trying – cats, I suspect, are far too sensible to willingly reside in Baden – without hitting a Baroness with a pug dog glued to her arm. The gambling halls, ah, the gambling halls! Those gilded cages of despair, where fortunes are made and lost with the same breathtaking speed. I watched a poor fellow lose his estate, his wife's jewelry, and quite possibly his will to live, all within the space of an hour. He emerged looking as though he'd aged a century, a cautionary tale writ large in his drooping mustache. And yet, the next day, there he was again, back at the tables, like a moth irresistibly drawn to a flickering flame. Perhaps it's the waters, rendering them all temporarily insane. Or perhaps, it's simply the human condition, a relentless pursuit of ruin disguised as entertainment. Either way, Baden is a curious spectacle, a bubbling cauldron of luxury, desperation, and exceedingly sulfurous smells. One leaves feeling both amused and slightly queasy, a condition I find oddly appropriate for the modern age.
