Now, about this Coliseum, this grand old ruin, it is a spectacle, no mistake. A spectacle of what, you might ask? Well, a spectacle of human folly, mostly, and a fair bit of spilled blood, solidified into the very stones themselves. One can wander through its echoing arches, the wind whistling a mournful tune that’s probably been playing since the first gladiator sharpened his sword, and picture the scene. Not the romanticized, Hollywood version, mind you, but the real thing – a brutal, sweaty, dusty affair. Picture the Emperor, puffed up like a pigeon with indigestion, giving the thumbs up or down with the same casual indifference one might show to a fly buzzing around his nose. 

And the roar of the crowd! Oh, the crowd. Bless their simple, bloodthirsty hearts. They came to be entertained, and entertained they were, by the spectacle of one man hacking another to pieces, all for a little glory and perhaps a pot of stew at the end of the day. One can't help but wonder what profundities occupied their minds as they watched, perhaps debating the best way to cook a dormouse or the latest gossip about the senator’s wife. Likely not pondering the fleeting nature of existence, I suspect.

They say ghosts haunt the place, the shades of fallen gladiators still battling it out in the moonlight. Maybe so. But I reckon the real ghosts are the echoes of that roaring crowd, that insatiable appetite for carnage, a chilling reminder of the darkness that lurks in the human heart, dressed up in togas and bay leaves. And all this grandeur, this magnificent edifice, erected for such a purpose! It's enough to make one consider that perhaps the most impressive Roman engineering feat wasn't the aqueducts, but the aqueduct that channeled all that collective insanity into one convenient, circular arena. Yes sir, the Coliseum. A monument, certainly, but a monument to what, exactly, is a question best left to the philosophers – or perhaps, to the pigeons who now perch upon its crumbling walls, contemplating the absurdity of it all.
