Harris, now there was a fellow peculiar enough to give a saint the twitch. He fancied himself a connoisseur of all things, you understand, from the proper way to peel a potato (an art he claimed dated back to the Pharaohs, mind you, though his potatoes often resembled misshapen turnips) to the precise temperature for brewing tea (a subject upon which he held forth for an hour once, only to burn the leaves to a crisp and then blame the kettle). He was a walking encyclopedia of misinformation, a repository of half-truths and outright fabrications, all delivered with such unwavering conviction that you half expected him to levitate. He’d tell you, with a perfectly straight face, that the common housefly was actually a miniature dragon in disguise, or that the moon was made of green cheese and guarded by a colony of singing squirrels. You’d argue, of course, for the sake of propriety, but you could see a glint of mischievous amusement in his eye, as if he was testing your mettle, seeing how far you’d let him lead you down the garden path.

He had this peculiar habit of correcting everyone, regardless of their expertise. A doctor could be explaining a complicated surgery, and Harris would interrupt with a pronouncement on the proper angle of the scalpel, learned, no doubt, from a correspondence course advertised on the back of a seed catalog. A carpenter could be hammering a nail, and Harris would offer advice on the superior grain of the wood, acquired, I suspect, from staring intently at a nearby fence post. It wasn't malice, bless his heart; it was simply an incurable case of the "I Know Better" affliction. And yet, for all his eccentricities, his blatant disregard for facts, and his general air of befuddled superiority, Harris possessed a certain charm. He was like a particularly stubborn weed in a well-manicured garden – annoying, perhaps, but undeniably, endearingly, part of the landscape. One couldn’t help but wonder, now and then, if he wasn't putting us all on, playing the fool to see if we’d take the bait. And, truth be told, more often than not, we did.
