Now, sepulchres, or tombs if you’re the sort who prefers simpler words for serious matters, are a curious thing, ain’t they? Folks spend their whole lives accumulating, striving, and generally making a nuisance of themselves, only to wind up in a glorified dirt nap, often encased in a stone box fancier than the home they occupied while breathing. I reckon it's a prime example of humanity’s penchant for the absurd. You see them scattered about like discarded checkers on a board, these grand, gloomy monuments to mortality. Some are simple affairs, a humble stone marking the spot where some poor soul surrendered to the inevitable. Others, well, they're just plain showy. I’ve seen sepulchres that could house a family of bears, adorned with angels weepin’ harder than a widow at a temperance meeting, and inscriptions so long they’d take a scholar a week to decipher. 

And what's the point, you ask? To impress the worms? To remind the living that they’re next? I suspect it’s mostly vanity, a last, desperate attempt to shout, "Remember me! I was somebody important!" from beyond the grave. But the truth is, time has a way of blurring the lines. Emperors and paupers, kings and cooks, they all end up as dust eventually. A hundred years from now, who’s going to remember the fine details of your earthly achievements? Maybe some diligent historian will scribble a footnote, but likely, you’ll just be another name on a list, another face in the crowd of the departed. Makes you wonder why we bother fretting so much about status and possessions, don’t it? Seems like we’re all just building our own little sepulchres, brick by brick, while we’re still alive, only to realize, in the end, that the best view of the heavens is from a patch of grass no different than any other. So, next time you see one of those ostentatious tombs, just tip your hat and whisper a little prayer for the occupant. They probably spent half their life worrying about what the neighbors thought, and now, well, they’ve got all the time in the world to reconsider their priorities.
