Lucerne, you say? Well, I reckon I’ve seen fairer cities, though I’ll admit, the lake's a sight that wouldn't shame a postcard – if they had such gaudy contraptions back in my day. All that blue water, hemmed in by mountains pretending to be solemn and important, like judges in fancy robes. The Reuss River, though, now that’s a different story. It bustles through town like a gossiping woman late for church, carrying tales and reflections of all the goings-on. I confess, I did find some amusement in watching those wooden bridges, the Kapellbrücke and the Spreuerbrücke, especially the one with the painted death scenes. Cheerful pictures, those ain't, but then again, life's a grim comedy sometimes, and a good laugh at mortality never hurt anybody. They say the paintings are a memento mori, a reminder of our inevitable end. I say, spend your money on a decent dinner, and you’ll be thinking about more immediate needs than the Grim Reaper.

The place is crammed with tourists, thicker than flies on a honeypot, all snapping pictures of the Lion Monument, that carved rock beast mournin’ some dead Swiss Guards. Supposedly, it's deeply movin’, and maybe it is, for folks who get their emotions secondhand from history books. Personally, I found it a bit…melodramatic. Like a stage actor overdoing a death scene. Though, I admit, the Swiss are rather good at tragedy, what with their yodeling and their fondness for cheese with holes big enough to hide a small dog. The shops are full of cuckoo clocks and chocolate, enough to give a hummingbird a sugar rush. The hotels are grand and gilded, fit for kings, though I doubt many kings stay there anymore, what with the world gone topsy-turvy. But Lucerne, it clings to its grandeur, its tidy streets, and its view of those self-important mountains. It’s a bit like an old dowager, dressed in her finest jewels, reminiscing about a past that was probably never quite as splendid as she remembers. A quaint, curious place, Lucerne. Worth a visit, if only to observe the human comedy unfold against a backdrop of overpriced souvenirs and perpetually blue water.
