Now, this Coliseum, this vasty, gaping maw of brick and marble, they call it – well, they call it many things, depending on whether you're listening to a wide-eyed tourist fresh off the boat or a jaded Roman cabbie trying to fleece you. But “Coliseum” it is, at least until some enterprising fellow decides to rename it “Flavius’ Magnificent Emporium of Souvenirs” and stick a gaudy sign on top. One can just imagine, can't one? A sight, indeed. 

But back to the matter at hand, this… this amphitheater of entertainments, or as I suspect, a testament to the Roman Emperor’s overcompensating for something, perhaps a slight case of toga envy. They say gladiators fought here, brave fellows hacking at each other until one or the other was deemed insufficiently alive for the audience’s liking. Lions, too, I’m told. Lions who probably had better things to do than chase portly Romans around an arena, but such is life, eh? Always someone being made the fool. And all for the amusement of a mob, a sea of faces roaring like a storm, presumably after a rather heavy lunch of grapes and fermented something-or-others.

I wandered around it, mind you, trying to imagine the bloodshed, the screams, the general hullabaloo. Hard to do now, with all the pigeons and the postcard vendors. The pigeons, mind you, probably the direct descendants of the pigeons who watched the gladiators, and likely offering the same insightful commentary then as they do now – “Coo! Coo! That fellow’s about to lose an ear!” 

And the sheer scale of the thing! Built by men, I remind you, without the aid of steam shovels or unions demanding tea breaks every ten minutes. One must give them credit for their persistence, if not their priorities. All that effort, all that stone, just to watch people kill each other in increasingly inventive ways. Though, come to think of it, perhaps not so different from a modern political debate, now is it? Only less bloody, usually. Though one might argue the emotional damage is far more devastating.
