Now, concerning this business of bucksheesh, which the traveler abroad is bound to encounter in lands less, shall we say, ‘fortunate’ than our own; well, it's a matter to be approached with the same wariness one might reserve for a particularly charming rattlesnake. For it’s not, mind you, simply a straightforward bribe, no sir. Oh no, that would be far too simple for the Oriental mind. Bucksheesh, you see, is an all-encompassing balm, a lubricant for the creaking gears of commerce and daily life. It’s expected, demanded even, for the smallest kindness, the most perfunctory service. You hand a fellah a coin for carrying your valise, and bless me, if he doesn’t eye you with the disappointed air of a clergyman presented with a wooden nickel at the collection plate. He will then, with a dramatic sigh worthy of the tragic stage, point out the imagined Herculean effort required to lug such a ponderous burden a mere twenty paces.

One soon learns that nothing moves, nothing happens, nothing IS, without the application of a little, or sometimes a great deal, of bucksheesh. A smile, a nod, a "good morning" is an invitation for it. And bless your heart, the clever rogue will always have a reason, plausible or utterly fantastical, why he deserves it. One fellow swore to me he needed it to feed his ailing camel, who, incidentally, looked healthier than I did, a situation for which I, too, felt deserving of some compensation. It’s a game, you see, a rather tiresome one, but a game nonetheless. You haggle, you feign outrage, you occasionally capitulate with a sigh of resignation and a muttered curse under your breath. And all the while, you’re enriching a system that seems designed to bleed the hapless tourist dry. But, and this is the rub, it's also a system that, in its own peculiar way, keeps things running. Like a rusty engine sputtering along on a diet of grease and hope. So, you pay the piper, grit your teeth, and remind yourself that at least you’re contributing to the local economy, even if that contribution is mostly lining the pockets of a particularly persistent donkey driver with a penchant for dramatic sighs. You may even find a perverse sort of amusement in the whole affair, a feeling akin to being expertly swindled by a man who truly loves his work.
