Higbie, now there’s a specimen. You wouldn’t find him stuffed in no fancy parlor back East, that’s a fact. Higbie was one of them fellas built on a foundation of pure grit and seasoned with a healthy dose of the ridiculous. He hailed, I believe, from somewhere back beyond the Missouri, a land where the rivers run thicker than molasses and the men are harder than the rocks they stumble over. Claimed he’d been a trapper, a miner, even a stagecoach robber for a spell, though I always suspected the robbery part was mostly embellishment – Higbie wasn’t exactly the subtle type. More likely he’d try to rob a stage with a choir of howlin’ coyotes and end up inviting the passengers for a friendly poker game.

His appearance? Well, imagine a scarecrow that’s been caught in a whirlwind, then dipped in mud and adorned with a beard that looked like it had been wrestled off a grizzly bear. His clothes were patched and re-patched so many times, they resembled a geological survey map of every kind of cloth known to man. He could tell you a story about every rip, every stain, every button that had gone astray. Lord, that man could spin a yarn longer than the Comstock Lode itself. And the stories! They were usually half tall-tale and half, well, more tall-tale. I recall one about him wrestling a mountain lion for a silver dollar – seemed plausible enough, until he claimed the mountain lion gave up because Higbie had a better poker face.

But underneath the dust and the bluster, there was a kind of honest heart to Higbie. He was fiercely loyal to his friends, quick to lend a hand to anyone in need, and he possessed that rare quality of being utterly, unapologetically himself. You couldn't help but like the old coot, even when he was tryin’ to swindle you out of your last dime at the saloon. He was a walking, talking, breathing embodiment of the Wild West, a rough diamond with a heart of gold – or, at least, of brass heavily plated with gold leaf. He wasn’t the smartest tool in the shed, not by a long shot, but he was genuine, and in this world of painted saints and polished lies, genuine was a sight more valuable than brains.
