Zermatt, you see, is the sort of place that gives a body pause, and then gives him another pause, just to make sure the first one wasn't some sort of fleeting hallucination brought on by altitude or perhaps a particularly potent cheese fondue. It's nestled, or rather jammed, right up against the Matterhorn, that iconic pointy rock that seems to spend its days perpetually shrouded in enough snow to supply a fleet of snow angels for the next century. The whole village is a perfect imitation of a toy town, except the toys are all grand hotels and boutiques peddling wristwatches that cost more than a small country's GDP. Automobiles, mind you, are forbidden, a sensible rule unless you're particularly fond of maneuvering a sputtering contraption through streets barely wider than a cat's whisker, with the added entertainment of dodging horse-drawn carriages ferrying tourists who look just as bewildered as you feel. The locals, bless their industrious hearts, seem to have mastered the art of transporting everything via electric carts that buzz around like overgrown, slightly malevolent bees. One half expects to see a miniature Swiss guard emerge from one, bearing a tiny declaration of war against littering. 

The air, I must admit, is rather bracing, a clean sort of air that feels like it's attempting to scrub your lungs raw – a noble effort, I suppose, considering the sins one might commit elsewhere. Then there's the skiing, a positively devilish activity that seems to involve launching oneself down mountainsides with an alarming lack of control, all in the name of leisure. Of course, there are those who perform the feat with grace and apparent ease, making the rest of us look like particularly clumsy penguins attempting ballet. Still, one can't help but feel a certain admiration for the audacity of it all. Zermatt, you see, is a place that makes you question your life choices, contemplate the sheer absurdity of existence, and then promptly order another round of glühwein, because facing the existential dread of snow-covered peaks is best done with a healthy dose of fortified wine.
