Now, about these Bedouins, these Arabs of the desert, these sun-baked wanderers with their camels and a disconcerting fondness for strong coffee. They are, to put it mildly, a curious lot. Picture, if you will, a chap perpetually dressed for a sandstorm, even when the nearest sand is a good ten miles distant. They are draped in more cloth than a draper's shop, all seemingly designed to keep out the sun, and yet, they manage to squint with the best of them. They travel across these desolate wastes with a grace that belies the utter inhospitable nature of the landscape, navigating by stars and sheer grit, a skill I find quite remarkable, considering I get lost finding my way back to my hotel room after a simple afternoon stroll.

They possess a code of hospitality that would put the finest hotelier to shame. You could be their sworn enemy one minute, but if you stumble into their tent, parched and dusty, they’ll offer you dates and camel’s milk as if you were the blooming Sultan himself. Though, mind you, that camel’s milk is an acquired taste, and I am not entirely sure I have acquired it yet. Tastes vaguely of… well, imagine the desert concentrated and poured into a cup. Still, one cannot fault their generosity. They are a proud people, these Bedouins, holding to traditions older than the pyramids, and clinging to a way of life that the march of progress seems determined to bury under concrete and steel.

I had a fella tell me once their wealth is not counted in gold but in camels, and children, though I suspect he was merely trying to sell me a camel. A shaggy, stubborn beast that I was fairly certain had a personal vendetta against me from the moment I laid eyes on it. All the same, there is something strangely admirable about these desert folk. They’ve faced down centuries of hardship and still greet the dawn with a resilience that puts my morning disposition to utter shame. One almost envies their simple existence, until one remembers the lack of proper plumbing and readily available ice cream. Then the allure fades somewhat, but the respect, that remains quite intact.
