Ballou, that specimen of innocence and misplaced enthusiasm, arrived in Carson City looking for all the world like a freshly plucked daisy daring to take root in a dung heap. He’d journeyed West, bless his hopeful heart, with a trunk full of law books and a head full of notions about justice prevailing out here amongst the gamblers, claim jumpers, and gentlemen whose morals seemed to have been permanently misplaced somewhere around Cape Horn. He imagined, I suspect, himself as some kind of legal knight-errant, tilting at the windmills of frontier chicanery with precedent and procedure as his lance and shield. Poor, deluded fellow. I'd wager he thought Carson City needed a good dose of Blackstone and righteous indignation, never suspecting it craved a good fistfight and a steady hand at poker far more.

His first case, if you can call it that, involved a dispute over a burro named Betsy, whom both parties swore was the offspring of a prize-winning jackass of Arabian lineage. The evidence presented involved conflicting testimony about the burro's gait, the length of its ears, and its general disposition towards affection – a truly fascinating spectacle of forensic science in action. Ballou, naturally, took it all with the utmost seriousness, scribbling furiously in his notebook, completely oblivious to the fact that half the courtroom was betting on which litigant would offer the judge the larger bribe. It was a marvel, really, to see such earnestness pitted against such seasoned cynicism. In the end, the judge, no doubt tired of the braying and the bickering, declared the burro common property, ordering it sold and the proceeds divided equally. Ballou looked utterly crestfallen, muttering something about due process and the sanctity of property rights. I, on the other hand, considered it a masterpiece of Solomon-esque wisdom, perfectly suited to the needs of a community that valued efficiency above all else. Ballou, though, remained unconvinced, still clinging to the belief that justice had somehow been wronged. I feared the West would either disillusion him completely or, more likely, chew him up and spit him out as a mildly educated cautionary tale. The outcome, I suspect, hinged largely on whether he’d learn to play poker before his law books became more useful as kindling.
