Now, Morgan, that feller was a study, a regular geologist’s delight of layers upon layers of peculiar. He arrived in Virginia City lookin’ like he’d been swallowed whole by a dust devil and coughed back up, which, knowin’ the dust devils we had, wasn’t outside the realm of possibility. Said he was a ‘mining expert’ come to seek his fortune. Expert, mind you! I’d sooner trust a coyote to teach Sunday School than believe that claim at face value. Seemed his expertise lay mostly in spillin’ coffee down his shirt and losin’ his pickaxe. He did have a knack for findin’ fool's gold, though, so perhaps his fortune was tied to furnishin’ every dim-witted greenhorn in the territory with a shiny, worthless rock to treasure.

He lodged himself in the back of O’Flaherty’s saloon, claimin' the drafts were a cure for his ‘ailing constitution’ – which, as near as I could tell, ailed mainly from a fondness for O’Flaherty’s rotgut. He held court there most evenings, pontificatin’ about geology to anyone gullible enough to buy him a drink, which, admittedly, wasn’t a terribly exclusive club. He talked big, he did, about veins of silver thicker than a mule and gold nuggets you could crack your teeth on. Trouble was, whenever he actually went prospectin’, he’d come back lookin’ like he’d been wrestle’d by a badger, usually with nothin’ to show for it but a few fresh scrapes and a taller tale.

One time, he swore he’d found a lode richer than the Comstock itself. Said he’d marked the spot with a ‘monument’ of rocks. Naturally, half the town traipsed after him, anticipatin' riches beyond their wildest dreams. After hours of trudging through the sagebrush, followin’ Morgan’s increasingly vague directions, we finally stumbled upon his ‘monument’ – a pile of three measly pebbles scarcely bigger than chicken feed. The collective groan that went up could’ve scared a grizzly bear clear to California. Morgan just shrugged, winked, and said, “Well, gentlemen, sometimes even a genius misplaces the decimal point!” The man was a walking contradiction, a blend of audacity and ineptitude so perfect it was almost admirable. He never did strike it rich, but he sure provided us with a wealth of entertainment, which, out in the Nevada Territory, was worth its weight in, well, not fool's gold, mind you.
