Now, concerning these mosques, or "Mahometan churches," as I reckon they might be called, though that’d likely rile up a devout Turk faster than you can say "infidel dog," they are curious contraptions, ain't they? A feller stumbles upon one, usually adorned with minarets like slender pencils poking at the heavens, and is struck by a certain… well, calmness. Not the same kind of calmness you find in a graveyard after a particularly lively hanging, mind you, but a more… calculated calmness. The walls are often plastered with arabesques, squiggles and curlicues that seem to writhe before your very eyes, like so many stubborn vines trying to escape their trellis. And the carpets, oh, the carpets! Enough wool to clothe a whole regiment of Siberian bears. You could lose a small dog, or perhaps a particularly irritating mother-in-law, in those woolen depths and nobody would be the wiser.

Inside, they're usually fairly devoid of idols or painted saints; seems the Mahometans, for all their supposed heathen ways, take their God-worshipping a trifle more seriously than some Christians I've seen, who seem more inclined to admire their own handiwork in stone and stained glass. Though I will admit, the lack of visual distractions does leave a body plenty of time to ponder the mysteries of the universe, or, more likely, to wonder where the nearest tavern might be located.

And then there's the calling to prayer, that sing-song chant bellowed from atop the minarets five times a day. Some folks find it melodic, others find it akin to a cat being strangled. I myself find it remarkably punctual. You can set your watch by it, provided you haven't lost it in the aforementioned carpets. The whole affair is steeped in ritual and reverence, which, while perfectly respectable, leaves a simple ol' Missourian such as myself feeling a bit like a bull in a china shop. You just know you're gonna commit some egregious faux pas sooner or later, probably involving shoes or headgear, and then the whole mosque will be staring at you with disapproval. Best to just admire from afar, I reckon, and leave the kneeling and prostrating to those who know what they're about. Besides, my knees ain't what they used to be. Getting old, you see, is a sin in itself.
