Now, about this bucksheesh, this oriental lubricant for the wheels of commerce, this silken key to unlock a thousand doors that would otherwise remain stubbornly shut. It is a custom, you see, a practice, a habit so deeply ingrained in the very mortar of the East that to ignore it would be akin to sailing up the Mississippi without recognizing that muddy fellow river itself. One might arrive, eventually, but one would surely be much the worse for wear, and likely bereft of both temper and time.

Bucksheesh, they call it; a pretty word for what some might sniff at and call bribery, but bless me, that's a clumsy, graceless term! No, bucksheesh is more akin to… well, to a small investment in smooth sailing. A gesture of goodwill, perhaps, a token of appreciation tendered before the appreciation is even earned, but which invariably, miraculously, makes the earning of it a far simpler affair. You wish to have your trunk conveyed from the wharf to your hotel? Bucksheesh. You desire a particularly fetching room, with a view that doesn’t involve staring directly into the backside of a donkey? Bucksheesh. You require information, say, about the best route through the bazaar, or the location of a reputable purveyor of genuine antiquities (and not, mind you, those crafted yesterday by cunning fellows eager to prey upon the unwary tourist)? Well, you begin to see the pattern, I suspect.

Of course, one must exercise a certain discretion. One doesn't simply wave a fistful of piasters in the air like a lunatic summoning spirits. No, no. It must be done with a certain delicacy, a quiet understanding passed between the parties involved, a fleeting glimpse of silver exchanged for an instantaneous brightening of the face. And the amount, you see, that’s a science in itself! Too little, and you’ve insulted the fellow; too much, and you've made him suspicious, wondering what nefarious deed you are attempting to cloak in gold. It's a delicate dance, this bucksheesh business, and one best learned by observation, and a healthy dose of self-deprecating humor when, inevitably, you manage to put a foot wrong. But trust me, learn the steps, and the doors of the East will swing open before you like magic, revealing treasures and experiences that would otherwise remain forever locked away.
