Slade, now there was a character for you, a regular walking menagerie of iniquity and gunpowder. He held court, you see, at a station out on the Central Overland route, a place where the stagecoaches changed horses and the passengers changed their minds about ever venturing West again. I reckon Slade considered himself a law unto himself, and maybe the desert agreed with him, seeing as it never offered much argument. He was a fella built like a brick outhouse, all muscle and menace, with a pair of eyes that could curdle milk at fifty paces. Now, some folks said he was a murderer, and I ain’t about to argue with a reputation that loud. Others claimed he was a misunderstood soul, a diamond in the rough, just needing a good wife and a proper hymnbook. Personally, I figured he was more diamond-cut-glass-shard in the throat, if you catch my meaning.

One time, I saw him discipline a fella for watering down the whiskey. “Discipline” being a gentle euphemism for what involved a hammer, a whiskey barrel, and a considerable amount of screaming. The fella learned his lesson, alright, though whether it was about whiskey or Slade, I couldn’t rightly say. He was fond of his firearms, Slade was, carried enough iron on him to equip a small cavalry unit. He kept the stagecoach running, though, that’s for certain. The drivers and passengers were so scared of him, they’d get those horses changed faster than you could say “Manifest Destiny.” And the meals at the station? Well, let’s just say they were memorable, if not exactly palatable. I recall one particularly tough piece of beef that I’m pretty sure had been grazing on the plains just the previous Tuesday. Still, you ate it, see? You ate it and you smiled and you thanked Slade for his hospitality, because arguing with Slade about the provenance of your dinner wasn’t exactly conducive to a long and happy life. He was a caution, that man, a walking, talking, gun-slinging illustration of why some folks preferred to stay East. But I’ll tell you what, he made the West interesting, at least. You just had to be careful not to get *too* interested.
