Well now, Morgan, there was a specimen for ya, and no mistake. I reckon you could’ve lined up a hundred fellas, same height, same build, maybe even slapped on identical whiskers, but you wouldn't find another Morgan amongst 'em. Came out West with notions grander than a cathedral, mind you. Claimed he was a “mineral prospector,” which translated to “wandering the hills with a pickaxe and a pocket full of dreams.” Spent most his time, though, perfecting the art of loafing, leaning against rocks like a human lichen, contemplating the profound mysteries of dust devils and the migratory patterns of tumbleweeds. Found less gold than a gopher, I tell you. More often than not he was richer in theories than in dollars. One time, he convinced himself the sun was composed entirely of solidified whisky, and spent a week trying to devise a method to tap into it. Near gave himself sunstroke in the process, and his contraption mostly consisted of mirrors and a rusty barrel, which, let’s be honest, was the most sensible part of the whole enterprise.

He had a vocabulary that could make a preacher blush, not from cussing, mind, but from the sheer audacity of the words he’d string together. Used to talk about “geological esoterica” when he meant dirt, and “atmospheric vicissitudes” when it rained. You'd think he swallowed a dictionary whole, though he likely just cribbed it from some discarded newspaper he found blowing across the desert. Yet he was harmless, Morgan. A lovable coot, quick with a yarn and slower with a shovel, he'd share his last bit of dried beef with you even if he'd spent the morning explaining the molecular structure of it. He eventually left for back East with pockets full of dreams and a new venture to find a gold mine in New York City. Last I heard, he was trying to patent a self-digging potato, claimed it would revolutionize farming, and solve world hunger. Probably still leaning against something, philosophizing about the profound mysteries of spuds. One thing's for certain, he was one of a kind, that Morgan. I imagine he is still out there somewhere, adding a touch of peculiarity to the world, one ridiculous scheme at a time.
