Now, Chamonix, that nest of a place tucked right under the skirts of Mont Blanc, a mountain so haughty it likely sneezes down avalanches just to remind the villagers of its preeminence. One expects to find, upon setting foot there, a congregation of hardy souls, tanned and crinkled from a lifetime of wrestling with glaciers and mocking gravity on skis. And one does find that, bless their brave, if somewhat foolish, hearts. But one also finds, and this is where the serpent of humor doth rear its head, a veritable parade of creatures draped in designer mountaineering gear, looking for all the world like pampered cats who’ve accidentally wandered into a lumberjack convention.

They clamber aboard the téléphériques, these bejeweled innocents, clutching their lattes with all the fortitude they can muster, their cheeks flushed less from exertion and more from the altitude, and perhaps a touch of terror. They crane their necks, point cameras worth more than the average Swiss chalet at the seemingly endless expanse of ice and rock, and exclaim, with practiced awe, "Oh, darling, isn't it *majestic*?" I daresay the mountain itself is stifling a yawn.

And then there are the shops! Oh, the shops! One can purchase a carabiner crafted from titanium that could likely hold the weight of a small elephant, though the only weight it will ever be tasked with bearing is the aforementioned latte and a strategically placed scarf. One can acquire ice axes gleaming like surgical instruments, surely destined to remain untouched save for dusting upon a shelf. The whole affair smacks of a rather theatrical game of dress-up, where the players are desperately trying to convince themselves, and perhaps more importantly, each other, that they are rough-and-tumble adventurers, rather than simply tourists with an extraordinarily large budget. One wonders, will they emerge victorious in their quest to conquer... the patisserie? Perhaps. But conquering Mont Blanc? Well, that's a proposition best left to those who know the difference between a crampon and a croissant. And, judging by the gleam in the shopkeeper's eye, the croissants are definitely winning.
