We struck out for Carson City, you see, figuring to make our fortunes right quick. Instead, we ran smack-dab into the alkali dust and a critter I reckon you might call a pard, though ‘burden’ seemed a sight more fitting at the time. Now, this pard, he wasn't no prospector with a glint in his eye and gold fever bubbling in his veins, not by a long shot. He was, to put it kindly, a lump. A walking, talking, snoring, eating lump that seemed to generate dirt and complaint in equal measure. We picked him up outside of Virginia City, him sitting by the side of the road looking forlorn as a hound dog that'd lost its bone. Claimed he was a lawyer, all highfalutin words and fancy pronouncements. Turns out, his ‘lawyering’ consisted mainly of arguing with bartenders about the price of whiskey and losing every hand of poker he ever laid eyes on.

I swear, that man could trip over flat ground and find a reason to blame it on the weather. He complained about the heat, the cold, the dust, the company (meaning us, naturally), and the lack of decent coffee. He couldn't cook, he couldn't shoot straight, and the only thing he seemed proficient at was whittling away at our supplies like a beaver in a lumberyard. He'd sit there, legs crossed, face perpetually crumpled in a look of utter misery, reading aloud from dog-eared volumes of Shakespeare and complaining about the quality of the acting in the local saloon. Tried to teach him to pan for gold once; he managed to get more mud down his shirt than into the sluice box, and declared the entire process beneath his dignity. More than once, Shorty and I reckoned on leaving him in the middle of nowhere with nothing but a copy of Hamlet and a can of beans, just to see how long it'd take him to find something to complain about in the desert sunrise. But something about his sheer, unadulterated incompetence was sort of endearing in a backhanded way. He was like a stray dog, you see – all sad eyes and hangdog expression. You couldn't rightly kick him, even if you were itching to. Besides, Shorty figured his misery was good luck, and he might just stumble across a gold vein while lamenting the lack of sonnets in the sagebrush. So, the lump stayed. And we dragged him along, a heavy, verbose, and utterly useless anchor on our quest for fortune.
