Now, about this mosque, mind you, it's not your everyday saloon with swinging doors and the aroma of stale beer, though I dare say the devout gather there with just as much fervor. It's a sight to behold, rising up like a frosted cake in the middle of the mundane, all domes and minarets tickling the sky, as if trying to whisper secrets to the Almighty. They say it's a house of prayer, a place where the faithful gather to prostrate themselves before their God, Allah. Sounds strenuous, doesn't it? All that bowing and scraping. Makes a fella wonder if they don't get crick in the neck something awful.

I recollect seeing them go in, a stream of folks, all shoes discarded like so much unwanted baggage at the door. Seemed a mighty peculiar thing to me, taking off your footwear before entering a building, but then again, I've seen folks do stranger things after a few too many whiskeys. Inside, it's all carpets and hushed whispers, quite a contrast to the bustling marketplace just outside. No pews, mind you, just open space for all that prostrating. One might argue it's a democratic arrangement, no privileged seating for the highfalutin, but I suspect it's more to do with maximizing floor space for the aforementioned neck-craning exercises.

And the language! They chant and drone in a tongue that sounds like wind whistling through the keyholes of ancient tombs, Arabic, they call it. I'm told it's the language of angels, though I confess it sounds more like a particularly grumpy camel to my untrained ear. But who am I to judge? Every man to his own, I always say, whether it's praying in Arabic, singing hymns in Latin, or cussing a blue streak in good old American English. It's all just noise making its way to somewhere up there, and I reckon the Almighty’s got a pretty good filter system by now. One can only hope, at least. Because if those prayers, delivered with such earnestness and frequency, are to go unheard, then the whole exercise might just be a whole heap of bother for nothing. And a sore neck, to boot.
