Lucerne, bless its heart, sits there on the edge of that lake like a plump, contented burgher after a Sunday roast, just radiating a sort of self-satisfied charm. The mountains, pilin’ up behind it like stage scenery for some grand opera about William Tell and liberty, they give it an air, I confess, but don’t think for a minute Lucerne takes itself too seriously. Oh, no. It’s too busy peddling souvenirs and chocolate to bother with highfalutin’ notions. I saw a cuckoo clock there that cost more than my first house, I swear, and tourists clambering to buy it as if it held the very secret of eternal life, bless their cotton socks. They all do, you see, these tourists. They’ve read in their guidebooks about the Chapel Bridge, that poor, pathetic thing charred to a crisp by some careless soul with a cigar (or maybe it was a lightning bolt, I can’t rightly recall), and they troop across it, snapping photos with their infernal contraptions, thinkin’ they’re capturing the soul of the place. But the soul of Lucerne, my dear, is not in a bridge, however historic and singed. It’s in the way the shopkeepers wink at you as they try to sell you a watch the size of your fist, or in the endless clatter of cowbells – a noise you either love or detest with the passion of a temperance preacher facing a whiskey barrel. And the lake! Ah, that lake. Clear as gin on a winter’s night, and populated by swans so haughty you’d think they owned the entire darned country. They glide about, lookin' down their noses at the paddleboats, as if to say, "Just look at those poor, struggling mortals, relyin' on steam power when they could be gliding effortlessly on the bounty of Nature!" It’s all a bit much, really, this Swiss perfection. But you know, I can’t help but find it ever so slightly… endearing. Like a child dressed up in his Sunday best, trying so hard to be good, even though you know he’s got mischief brewing in his pockets. Yes, Lucerne is a scoundrel, but a charming one, just the sort you’d happily let pick your pocket while you admire the view.
