Winters out West, now there’s a chapter I could write a book about, and maybe I will if I ever manage to thaw out my fingers enough to hold a pen steady. People back East, they prattle on about snow like it's some kind of Christmas card picture, all fluffy and picturesque. Bless their naïve hearts. Out here, winter ain't no parlor game. It's a siege. You see snow deep enough to bury a church steeple, and winds that’ll strip the paint off a saloon faster than a crooked gambler relieving a greenhorn of his gold dust. And the cold? Lord have mercy, the cold! It bites, it claws, it chews right through your hide like a starving coyote on a chuck wagon biscuit. I recollect one winter in Virginia City – no, not the one you’re thinking of, this one was worse – where the mercury took a dive so deep, I swear I saw a cat chasing a hot coal just to keep warm.

We huddled together like penguins, folks did, around fires that roared louder than a preacher on Judgment Day, telling stories that stretched taller than the snowdrifts outside. Half the stories were probably lies, but who’s to say when your beard is frozen solid and your brain is working slower than a mule in molasses? Eating became less of a pleasure and more of a necessity, just fueling the furnace within. Beans and bacon, mostly, washed down with whiskey strong enough to burn the whiskers off a buffalo. And speaking of buffalo, the poor critters had a rough time of it, too, wandering around like lost souls in a whiteout, looking for a blade of grass that hadn't been swallowed by the frozen earth. Come spring, they’d look like they hadn’t eaten a decent meal since Noah landed the Ark. The only good thing about winter, and I say this with a straight face, is that it made you appreciate the sun more than a prospector appreciates a gold strike. You knew, deep down, that even if you did survive, next winter was just around the corner, sharpening its icy claws, ready to pounce again. And you’d just have to brace yourself, button up tight, and pray you had enough firewood to see you through.
