Now, these Mormons, a peculiar bunch I stumbled upon out West, thick as flies on a summer melon, were quite the sight. It wasn't just the sheer numbers of 'em, mind you, filling up Salt Lake City faster than a gold rush, but the way they went about things, all serious and pious one minute, and then hatching schemes like a coop full of hens the next. Brigham Young, that old fox, he had 'em all corralled, I reckon, though whispers did fly around like tumbleweeds in a dust storm about the goings-on behind closed doors. Plural marriage, they called it. A man with more wives than fingers on a hand – seemed a bit much for my simple sensibilities, but who am I to judge? Maybe it kept the peace out there, what with so few women and all that wild, untamed country to contend with.

They built their city up from dust and sagebrush, those Mormons did, like industrious beavers damming a river. Irrigation ditches everywhere, making the desert bloom like a hothouse. Clever folks, no denying that. Always quoting scripture and working like mules, a curious combination, but effective. They treated a stranger, such as yours truly, with a wary kindness, like a cat eyeing a new dog in the yard. Polite enough, but you could feel 'em sizing you up, trying to figure out if you were there to stay or just passing through with a pocket full of schemes of your own.

I saw one feller, name of Ebenezer, with three wives, each one looking as glum as a rainy Monday. Ebenezer himself looked worn down, like a saddle that'd seen too many miles. I couldn't help but wonder if all that marital harmony they preached about was just a fancy veneer slapped onto a house full of squabbles. But then again, maybe they had a system that worked, some secret handshake or password that kept everything running smooth. Wouldn't be surprised, those Mormons, they had secrets like a prospector had nuggets, carefully guarded and not easily shared. All in all, they were a curious case, a puzzle wrapped in an enigma, sprinkled with a bit of Utah dust.
