Now, about this sepulchre business. You’d think a man could find a decent place to rest his weary bones after a lifetime spent wrestling with crooked politicians and the unpredictable affections of the fairer sex, but no. The world, it seems, is riddled with monuments of the dead, each vying for attention like a gaggle of fortune tellers at a county fair. I've seen 'em all, I reckon. From the humble, unassuming mounds out on the prairie, barely discernible from a badger den, to those positively scandalous affairs the Europeans are so fond of – great piles of marble crawling with cherubs and draped in enough floral ornamentation to give a dyspeptic bee a headache. They seem to miss the point entirely, those continental types. A tomb ain't a declaration of vanity, it's supposed to be a farewell, a quiet suggestion that life, for all its pomp and circumstance, is but a fleeting show.

I recall stumbling upon one over in Italy, built for some duke or other, that was practically a small palace. Had its own courtyard, a fountain burbling away merrily (as if death were something to be celebrated with a splash), and enough carved allegories to confuse a team of theologians. I half expected to see the duke himself emerge, dust off his powdered wig, and demand a spot of tea. And the inscriptions! Good gracious, they went on for pages, detailing every single glorious deed and every last perfectly executed hunting expedition. I’d wager the poor fellow spent more time dictating his epitaph than he did actually living. One begins to suspect they erect these things not for the dead, but for the living to gawk at, to whisper about, to feel momentarily superior to the fellow six feet under, regardless of how much he contributed to the greater good, or to make it seem that the person inside was someone special.

Give me a plain stone marker any day, something that simply states the name and perhaps the year. A quiet reminder that a life was lived, not a symphony of self-aggrandizement carved in granite. Though, I confess, I've entertained the notion of having mine built with a working lemonade stand attached. Figure I might as well earn a few pennies even after I've shuffled off this mortal coil. Besides, a fellow could get thirsty roaming the afterlife, and a good, honest lemonade stand is a service to any community, living or otherwise. That's what I'd call a legacy.
