Them miners, bless their greasy, unshaven mugs. A feller could spot 'em a mile off, even if they weren't draped in enough dust to fertilize a small farm. They walked with a peculiar shuffle, see, a sort of bow-legged swagger that came from straddling shafts and dodging cave-ins. And Lord, they could spin a yarn thicker than a cable stretched across the Comstock. Every nugget they ever found, by their tellin', was bigger than a man's fist, gleamin' like the eye of a jealous god. They'd exaggerate a gopher hole into a bonanza, and a pinch of gold dust into a king's ransom. Mostly, though, they were just tryin' to claw a livin' out of the belly of the earth, same as the rest of us.

You wouldn’t find a more superstitious bunch this side of the Mississippi. Knock on wood? Why, they practically lived in a forest made of petrified tree trunks just so they had somethin' to tap on. Whistlin' in a mine was practically a hanging offense, and women were about as welcome down a shaft as a skunk at a tea party. They had charms and rituals for everything: spitting on their tools for luck, leaving offerings to the 'tommy-knockers' (those mischievous little gremlins who presumably caused all the cave-ins they couldn't blame on bad timber), and swearin' up a storm any time they hit a streak of nothin’ but hardpan. They'd drink like fishes, gamble like devils, and fight like cornered badgers when they had a few drinks in 'em. And don’t even get me started on their fashion sense. A miner's outfit generally consisted of whatever rags happened to be handy after a dynamite blast, plus a hat that looked like it had survived a small war, probably did. All that rough livin' gave 'em a certain charm, though, a sort of grizzled integrity, even if it was buried under layers of dirt and bad whiskey. They were the kind of fellows who’d share their last biscuit with a stranger, then try to swindle him out of his claim the next mornin’. A contradictory bunch, those miners, but solid as the granite they dug through.
