Well now, pard, speaking of pardners, I reckon I’ve seen more flavors of that breed than there are stars in the Nevada sky on a clear night – and Lord knows, that’s saying somethin’. You get yer grizzled prospector pard, the kind who’s seen it all and forgotten most of it, mumbling about strikes he almost made and fortunes he nearly tripped over, usually whilst squatting over a sputtering campfire and nursing a jug of something that smells suspiciously like embalming fluid. Then there's your city slicker pard, fresh off the stagecoach with more hair pomade than common sense, convinced he’ll be rich by Tuesday if he just finds the right vein of silver. He’ll be gone by Wednesday, usually lighter in the pocket and smelling faintly of burnt leather from trying to ride a horse that rightly belongs in a rodeo.

And don’t even get me started on the silent type – the ones who grunt and nod and communicate mostly through a complex system of hand gestures that would baffle a deaf-mute. You never quite know what they’re thinkin’, but you can bet it involves either finding gold, drinking whiskey, or avoiding other people, probably in that order. I recall one feller, called him "Whispering Pete" on account of he never did none, just pointed at things. Found a whole load of fool's gold with him, though, so maybe he was a genius at being wrong. Then, of course, you get the pardner who's mostly pardner in the eating department. They'll wolf down more beans than a harvest crew, snore louder than a freight train, and contribute about as much to actual labor as a petrified cactus. They’re good for entertainment, though, you see 'em trying to swing a pickaxe without toppling head-over-heels and you’d think a whole circus had come to town. But, truth be told, even the laziest, grumpiest, and most exasperating pard is better than no pard at all out here in this godforsaken land. Misery loves company, as they say, and out here, pard, there's misery enough for everyone, including the coyotes.
