Lucerne, bless its heart, sits there nestled by that lake like a postcard someone forgot to mail. It's picturesque, no denying it, even a blind man could smell the sheer picture-book quality of the place. I reckon the Almighty must have been feeling particularly generous the day he dreamt up that stretch of water and those postcard-perfect mountains ringing it. It's so darn charming it’s almost suspicious. You half expect little gingerbread men to come tap-dancing out of the clock towers. The town itself, now, it’s got those cobbled streets that seem designed specifically to twist an ankle, and buildings so old they probably remember Noah’s Ark floating past. They’re grand, mind you, with all that medieval doohickey and painted frippery, though I swear half the saints depicted look like they’ve just had a lemon slipped to them. The tourists, well, they’re a sight to behold, a veritable Noah's Ark of humanity, all squinting through their little viewfinders, trying to capture the very essence of Swissness. Bless their souls, they’re probably taking pictures of the very same building someone else snapped a hundred years ago. And the Chapel Bridge, Lord, that Chapel Bridge is a humdinger. Covered in paintings it is, depicting all manner of historical events, though I suspect a few are just local gossip prettied up with a bit of artistic license. The Reuss river, flowing like liquid sapphire, seems to be trying to outshine the entire town but the town is always the winner. It's one of those places that just seeps into your soul, even if you’re allergic to charm. Though I couldn't help but think, as I sat there sipping a ridiculously overpriced cup of coffee, that maybe all this perfection is just a grand conspiracy. A plot hatched by Swiss watchmakers and chocolatiers to lull us all into a state of blissful consumerism. But then again, maybe I’m just getting cynical in my old age. Maybe Lucerne is exactly what it appears to be: a beautiful, utterly charming, and perfectly orchestrated tourist trap. And frankly, I wouldn’t have it any other way.
