Now, about this mosque, this edifice of faith, I must say it's a right curious sight, a bit like a misplaced Ottoman daydream plopped down amidst the humdrum brick and mortar of, say, St. Louis. Stands there, it does, all minarets and domes, looking for all the world like a Sultan's fancy cake gone slightly architectural. You see fellows trooping in and out, slippers shed like unwanted baggage at the door, faces set with a seriousness that would make a deacon blush. Inside, I'm told, it's all carpets finer than a riverboat gambler's best suit and verses from the Quran scroll across the walls like pronouncements from a divinely ordained bookkeeper.

And the call to prayer! Bless my stars, it's a sound that'll either send shivers down your spine or make you suspect your neighbor's rooster has taken up operatic ambitions. Comes wailing out over the rooftops, a bit mournful, a bit insistent, reminding everyone from the banker to the baker that there's more to life than interest rates and sourdough. Now, I ain't one for organized religion myself, finding it a bit like herding cats in a dust storm, but I can't deny there's something compelling about the whole affair. The dedication, the solemnity, the sheer unwavering belief – it's enough to make a cynic like me reconsider whether my liver might actually contain a soul after all.

Of course, you'll hear folks whispering about it, raising a suspicious eyebrow or two. Human nature, I reckon. Anything different, anything foreign, is bound to stir up a bit of the heebie-jeebies. But, truth be told, it seems to me that these fellows are just trying to live a decent life, same as the rest of us. Praying, fasting, doing their best to keep the commandments, just like the Baptists down the street, only with a different set of bells and whistles. And if that ain't the American way, then I'll eat my hat – a beaver-felt top hat, mind you, not some flimsy straw contraption. So, let them have their mosque, I say. There's room enough in this world for all sorts of peculiarities, and a little bit of foreign spice never hurt nobody. Besides, it's added a touch of the exotic to the neighborhood, and that's worth something, even if it’s just a good story to tell the tourists.
