Ballou, that spectral specimen of humanity, hailed, or rather, drifted in on a gentle breeze of bewilderment, from the hallowed halls of some Eastern institution of learning. I suspected he’d been accidentally enrolled; a stray pigeon, perhaps, wearing spectacles and carrying a well-worn copy of Euclid's Elements. He was a lawyer, Ballou was – or at least, he *claimed* to be. Whether he’d ever actually practiced law, well, that remained shrouded in the same impenetrable fog that seemed to permanently envelop his spectacles. He arrived in Nevada with aspirations of becoming a legal luminary, but mostly illuminated the landscape with his utter and complete incompetence. He possessed an intellect, mind you, that could split hairs finer than a hummingbird's eyelash, but he couldn't seem to grasp the salient point of even the simplest barroom brawl.

His legal arguments resembled nothing so much as a bewildered flock of chickens, clucking and squawking aimlessly, before finally collapsing into a heap of feathers and confusion. One time, defending a fellow accused of stealing a horse, Ballou spent a full hour arguing the philosophical implications of ownership, quoting Plato and Blackstone with equal misapplication, before finally remembering to ask the crucial question: “Did the accused even *see* the horse?” The judge, a gruff gentleman whose patience had worn thin somewhere around the second citation of Cicero, nearly threw his gavel at Ballou’s head.

He was a good man, Ballou, I'll grant him that. Honest as the day is long, albeit perpetually lost and confused. He just wasn't cut out for the rough and tumble realities of the West. He’d argue a point with the tenacity of a bulldog clinging to a bone, even when everyone else in the room knew he was barking up the wrong tree. Still, there was a certain charm to his utter helplessness, a certain innocence that seemed wholly out of place amongst the hardened gamblers and claim jumpers. He was a breath of fresh, if slightly dusty, air, and I found myself, much to my surprise, rather fond of the poor, befuddled fellow. Though I wouldn't trust him to defend me against a parking ticket, let alone a murder charge.
