Now, this Coliseum, mind you, a place they called it for gladiators and such, isn't just a pile of rocks thrown together by some drunken cyclops, though I wouldn't put it past those Romans to employ one if they had the chance. No sir, this is architecture on a scale that makes your average Missouri barn look like a doghouse. Imagine, if you will, a giant pudding mold made of stone, big enough to swallow half of St. Louis whole, and that's just the outside. Inside, you had tiers upon tiers of seats, enough to accommodate every loafer, senator, and fruit vendor in Rome, all jostling for the best view of some poor fellow getting poked full of holes.

They say lions were involved, and I wouldn't doubt it. The Romans, they had a certain fondness for dramatic flair. Why settle for a simple stabbing when you can have a lion do the honors? It's the kind of spectacle that appeals to the baser instincts, like a good political rally or a plate of particularly greasy sausages. And let me tell you, the roar of the crowd, the clash of steel, the occasional shriek of a man realizing he's about to become lunch – it's all rather… invigorating, in a barbaric sort of way. 

Of course, after a few centuries, the novelty wore off, I reckon. All those fights and screams tend to get a bit monotonous after a while. Now, the Coliseum stands there, all weathered and worn, like an old soldier recounting war stories to a bunch of pigeons. Tourists flock to it, cameras in hand, snapping pictures of the ancient ruins, trying to capture a bit of the glory and gore. They can try all they want, but the real show, the one with the blood and sweat and genuine human drama, that's long gone. All that's left is the stage, a silent testament to the peculiar human appetite for entertainment, even if it means watching someone else’s demise. Makes you wonder, don't it, what future generations will be gawking at a few centuries from now, wondering what peculiar vices we found so enthralling. Probably reality television, I suspect. A fate perhaps worse than being eaten by a lion, wouldn't you agree?
