Now, about sepulchers. A body might as well be in one, for all the good it does once it's departed this earthly coil. But, Lord, the fuss we make over 'em! Back home in Hannibal, old man Withers, he was buried in a plain pine box, not even varnished, just thrown in the ground, six feet down, and nobody batted an eye. Practical, I say. But out here in Europe, well, they’re built like little palaces, carved marble and all that folderol. You'd think the departed soul was still rattling around in there, admiring the craftsmanship. As if they cared! They're off gallivanting in the afterlife, or worm food, depending on your leanings. 

I saw one in Rome, mind you, for some Pope or other, and it had enough gold leaf to pave Main Street back home. Columns, cherubs, the whole shebang. The extravagance of it! Why, you could feed a whole town with what that thing cost. And for what? To impress the living, naturally. To remind them that this particular Pope was more important than your average Joe, even in death. A body's importance, according to these folks, apparently rises with the cost of their tomb. It's a comical notion, when you think about it. We spend our lives accumulating trinkets and baubles, and then spend a fortune on a fancy hole in the ground to keep them from getting lonely. 

Seems a bit wasteful, doesn't it? Like painting the inside of a coffin. Nobody’s going to see it but the occupant, and he's not exactly in a position to appreciate the artistry. Still, I suppose it gives the bereaved something to do, a way to channel their grief into elaborate stonework. And who am I to begrudge them that? Besides, it provides employment for all those stone carvers, and keeps the marble quarries in business. So, maybe there’s a method to this madness after all. Maybe these sepulchers aren't just monuments to the dead, but monuments to the living's capacity for elaborate, expensive, and ultimately pointless gestures. Makes you wonder what kind of monument they'll build for me, assuming I ever acquire enough importance to warrant one. Probably just a simple headstone, I reckon, with a misspelled epitaph and a flock of pigeons using it for target practice. Now, that would be fitting.
