Higbie, now there was a specimen. You wouldn’t think to look at him, all lanky and topped with that dandelion fluff he called hair, that he was any more equipped for fortune-hunting than a frog for a lecture. But appearances, as they say, are as deceptive as a politician's promise. Higbie had, somehow, stumbled into a claim up near Gold Hill that was reputed to hold more silver than the Comstock had dirt. Of course, the “reputed” part did all the heavy lifting in that sentence. Fact was, nobody, least of all Higbie himself, had actually seen this mountain of bullion with their own two eyes.

He was a dreamer, was Higbie, a man whose mind was as crowded with fantasies as a boarding house attic. He’d sit there, by the hour, whittling at a piece of pine, spinning yarns about the day his silver claim paid out. He’d build himself a mansion, naturally, with a billiard room the size of a church and enough fancy furniture to fill a steamboat. He’d wear velvet coats, smoke cigars the length of your forearm, and have his boots polished by a Chinaman every blessed morning. All this on the strength of something he hadn’t actually found, mind you. It was a marvel, the faith a man could put in a hole in the ground.

The real amusement came from watching him try to get others to share his delusions. He’d buttonhole every newcomer to town, regaling them with tales of his future riches, trying to peddle shares in his nonexistent mine. Folks would listen, mostly out of politeness, and maybe a little bit of morbid curiosity. They’d nod along, picturing the poor sap throwing good money after bad, and then they’d go off and invest in something a little more tangible, like saloon whiskey or a good used pickaxe. Still, Higbie never lost heart. He’d just brush off the rejection like a fly from a sugar bowl and go on believing, come hell or high water, that he was sitting on the next bonanza. Bless his simple soul. I reckon that's the only kind of man who ever strikes it rich out here. The ones who can't be reasoned with, or maybe even reasoned about. 
