Now, Galilee. Bless its heart, it’s a pleasant enough country, if you’re partial to rocks and scrub. One imagines the Almighty, after crafting the lush valleys of Lebanon and the rolling hills of Judea, must have swept up the leftover bits and bobs and tossed them toward Nazareth way. “There,” He likely boomed, “make something of that!” And make something of it they did, bless their industrious souls, though what they made wasn’t exactly setting the Euphrates on fire. The Sea of Galilee, though they call it a sea, is really more of a pond, a modestly sized puddle where one can imagine the fish, lacking the vastness of the ocean, are prone to gossip. I reckon they know every blessed secret whispered along the shore, from the price of olives in Tiberias to whether young Miriam has taken a fancy to the carpenter from Nazareth.

I spent some time poking about the ruins of Capernaum, which is about as lively as a graveyard at midday. They say that this was once a bustling town, teeming with fishermen and merchants and tax collectors. Now, all that's left are some rather forlorn-looking stones, baking under the sun. Still, there's a certain charm to the place, a quiet dignity that whispers of ages past. One can almost hear the echo of the fishermen's calls, the haggling of merchants, and perhaps even the murmur of a certain rabbi who, if the stories are to be believed, stirred up quite the kerfuffle in these parts.

The people of Galilee, well, they’re a hardy bunch, tanned by the sun and seasoned by the wind. They have a certain rustic honesty about them, a way of looking you straight in the eye that makes you feel as though you’re being weighed and measured, not by your purse, but by your character. I dare say, I found their company quite refreshing, after the perfumed pretense and inflated egos of Jerusalem. Though, I must confess, their cooking could use a bit of sprucing up. It seems the culinary arts took a back seat to more pressing matters, like coaxing a decent harvest from those infernal rocks. But all in all, Galilee's a good enough place, if you don’t mind a little dust, a little heat, and a good dose of biblical history thrown in for good measure. Just don’t expect to find any opera houses.
