Now, a sepulchre, as I understand it, ain't nothing but a fancy-pants grave, gussied up and ready for company. Some folks, they just get plopped in the ground, maybe with a stone that says, "Here lies Jedediah, he was mostly harmless." That's a grave, plain and simple. But a sepulchre, now that's a statement. That's saying, "Jedediah wasn't just harmless, he was IMPORTANT! Or, at least, his widow had more money than sense and wanted to make sure everyone knew it." You see 'em all over Europe, these sepulchres, big as houses some of 'em, filled with marble angels weeping and cherubs blowing trumpets. You'd think the deceased was personally responsible for inventing sliced bread, the way they carry on.

I recall seeing one in Italy, for some Pope fellow I'd never heard of. The thing was so enormous, it took up half a church. There were carvings of battles he probably never fought, virtues he likely never possessed, and miracles he certainly never performed. And right there in the middle, this little shriveled-up corpse, all dressed in fancy robes, looking for all the world like a disappointed ventriloquist dummy. Made me wonder, did he spend his whole life trying to live up to the sepulchre they were planning to build for him? Must be a terrible burden, knowing you're supposed to be twice as important dead as you ever were alive.

Of course, the truly clever thing about a sepulchre is that it's all for show. The dead don't need a fancy house. They're past caring about marble or cherubs or whether their virtues are properly displayed. No, the sepulchre is for the living. It's a way of reminding everyone how important the deceased was, and by extension, how important *you* are for being related to them. It's a monument to vanity, carved in stone and paid for with good money. And if you ask me, a plain old grave, with a simple stone and a few wildflowers, is a far more honest tribute. At least it doesn't pretend the fellow was anything other than what he was: a fellow, six feet under.
