Now, these miners, bless their dusty hides, were a breed apart, I tell you. You could spot 'em a mile off, even if they weren't covered head to toe in enough Nevada dirt to fertilize a postage stamp-sized farm. Their faces, they were like geological surveys themselves, carved deep with the lines of hardship and speckled with enough gunpowder residue to start a miniature war if you lit 'em up just right. And their hands! Good Lord, their hands were like gnarled roots wrested from the bowels of the earth, capable of cradling a blasting cap or wielding a pickaxe with equal deftness. They’d walk into a saloon lookin' like they’d just crawled out of a badger hole, smellin' like damp rock and stale sweat, but by thunder, they had a certain… dignity, you might call it. Dignity born of wrestlin' a living from the unyielding grip of the earth.

They weren’t much for pretty words, these fellas. Conversation usually consisted of grunts, nods, and an occasional explosion of profanity that would make a parson blush. But they were honest, mostly, in their own peculiar way. They might cheat at cards, and they certainly weren't averse to exaggerating the size of their claims, but they’d share their last biscuit with a man down on his luck, or risk life and limb to pull a fellow miner out of a cave-in. They had a code, see, a rough-and-tumble code born of necessity and the understanding that tomorrow, it might be them buried under a ton of rock. They'd gamble their entire stake on a turn of the card or a horse race faster than you could say "Eureka!", but they held their friendships tighter than a miser clutches his gold. And they knew how to spin a yarn, these boys, tales of fortunes found and lost, of ghosts in the tunnels, and of gold nuggets so big they had to be hauled out by mule teams. Half of it was probably pure hogwash, of course, but it was darn good hogwash, and you'd be a fool to interrupt 'em. So you’d sit there, nursing your whiskey, and listen to 'em spin their tales, and for a little while, you'd forget all about the dust and the heat and the sheer, bone-wearying labor of it all, and you'd almost believe that maybe, just maybe, there really was a pot of gold at the end of the rainbow, buried deep down in the heart of the earth.
