Them miners, bless their hopeful hearts and perpetually dust-choked lungs, were a sight to behold, a breed apart from the lily-livered clerks and parlor-room dandies back East. Why, a feller could tell a miner from a mile off, just by the way he walked – a sort of bow-legged stagger, born of years spent straddling claims and scaling treacherous slopes. And the language! Lord have mercy, the language! It was a symphony of cusses, oaths, and inventive slang, a veritable opera of orneriness that would make a parson faint clean away. But beneath the gruff exterior and the tobacco-stained beards beat hearts of pure gold, maybe not literally, though they surely spent enough time digging for it. 

You’d find 'em huddled around a campfire, swapping yarns that grew taller with each passing bottle of rotgut whiskey, each one a Shakespeare of tall tales, weaving fantastical accounts of strikes richer than Croesus and claims so cursed they’d make even the devil himself think twice. There was Ol' Pegleg Pete, swore he found a nugget the size of a goose egg, only to have a grizzly bear swallow it whole. And Widow McGreggor, who insisted her mine was haunted by the ghost of a claim jumper, forever doomed to eternally shovel imaginary dirt. I myself reckon half of what they said was hogwash, but it was entertaining hogwash, and in a land where boredom could drive a man to madness, entertainment was worth more than its weight in – well, you guessed it – gold. They were a superstitious bunch, too, clinging to omens and rituals like a drowning man to a plank. Wouldn't whistle in a mine, wouldn't let a woman near a claim, and heavens forbid you say the word "rabbit" underground – that was a guaranteed recipe for disaster. But behind all the bluster and hocus pocus, they were just men, driven by the eternal hope of striking it rich, or at least finding enough dust to buy themselves a decent meal and a stiff drink, clinging to their dreams even as the dust settled in their boots and the sun beat down on their weary backs.
