The Mormon question! Now there's a subject to chew on longer than a slab of hardtack in a blizzard. Up there in the Salt Lake Valley, they’ve carved an empire out of dust and sagebrush, a veritable oasis fueled by faith and, some whisper, a darn sight of shrewd business sense. Brigham Young, bless his stern old heart, certainly knew how to rally the troops – and a goodly number of wives, it appears. You hear tales that'd make your hair stand on end; of angels and golden plates, of polygamy practiced brazen as a sunburnt nose, of a loyalty so fierce it’d make a patriot weep with envy. I ain't saying I swallowed it all whole, mind you. I've seen enough humbug in this world to know a tall tale when I hear one. But I'll be hornswoggled if I didn’t see a prosperity and a sense of community in Salt Lake City that’d put most of our civilized metropolises to shame. They’re industrious, these Mormons, no denying it. They irrigating the desert, buildin' temples that scrape the sky, and raising families big enough to populate a small town.

And the women! Well, now, there's a curious spectacle. Some say they’re downtrodden, kept in the shadows like precious jewels to be admired but not touched. Others claim they’re the real power behind the throne, whisperin’ in their husband’s ears and guidin’ the whole shebang with a steady hand. Truth, as always, likely lies somewhere in between. You see ‘em walkin’ the streets, faces covered or open, and you can’t help but wonder what they really think behind those demure smiles. They certainly know how to sew a fine quilt and churn a mighty pound of butter, that's for sure. But whether they find happiness in their peculiar arrangement, well, that's a question best left to the philosophers – or maybe to a nosy journalist with a pad and pencil and a whole lot of time on his hands. As for me, I’ll just tip my hat and move on, marveling at the audacity of it all, and wondering if perhaps, just perhaps, there’s a secret to their success that we gentiles could learn a thing or two from.
