Them miners, now there's a breed of cat, I tell you. Born half of grit and half of hope, and seasoned with enough whiskey to float a steamboat. You’d find ‘em scattered thicker than fleas on a mangy dog throughout Nevada, each one convinced he was just a pick-swing away from hitting the Comstock Lode all over again. Lord, the yarns they’d spin! Every gulch, every gully, every rock seemed to have a story attached, generally involving a vein of silver so thick you could pave the streets of San Francisco with it, and a claim jumper who got his just desserts in a manner too imaginative to print in polite company. 

Most of ‘em, though, they were just plain ordinary fellas, tougher than rawhide and just as likely to crack if you put too much pressure on ‘em. They’d burrow into those hills like gophers, breathing dust so thick it’d turn your spit the color of lead, all for a chance at striking it rich. And what did they get for their troubles? Mostly empty pockets, rheumatiz, and a cough that sounded like a busted bellows. But did they give up? Not a chance. They'd just sharpen their picks, swig some more rotgut, and tell themselves that tomorrow would be the day.

You'd see 'em in town on Saturday nights, flush if they'd found a color, broke if they hadn't, and always ready for a brawl or a hand of poker. They’d argue about everything from the best way to prop a tunnel to the proper length of a mule's tail, and they’d settle it all with fists, bowie knives, or a coin toss, depending on how much whiskey had been involved. They were loud, opinionated, and smelled like gunpowder and sweat, but they were honest, mostly, and fiercely loyal to their partners. They were the backbone of the territory, those miners, even if that backbone was a little bit bent from swinging a pickaxe all day. And doggone it, they believed in something, even if that something was just the gleam of fool's gold in a sunlit stream. Made a body almost believe in something themselves, just watching 'em. Almost.
