And then, there's the chamois. Bless their pointy-eared, goat-like hearts. I've seen them scampering up mountains faster than I can find a comfortable place to sit and observe. It's a rather preposterous notion, if you think about it. Imagine a creature built for tiptoeing on the face of a sheer, unforgiving rock, as though gravity is merely a suggestion it finds mildly amusing. They’re forever leaping about as though a swarm of imaginary wasps were nipping at their, well, you know. One wonders if they ever simply stop and consider the absurdity of it all. I haven’t seen one ponder such deep matters myself, but I hold to the idea that even the dumbest creature has a spark of intelligence.

And their fur – a most peculiar shade of brownish-grey, like the dirt on my Sunday boots after I've traipsed about looking for adventure. It suits them, I suppose, blending them seamlessly into the craggy landscape, but one can't help but wonder if they ever longed for a splash of color. Perhaps a fetching crimson scarf tied jauntily around their little necks. Or maybe not, knowing their inherent nature is to hide and not flaunt. Still, I wager even the most humble creature occasionally harbors a secret desire for a bit of finery.

They say the chamois are terribly clever at avoiding hunters, and I confess I find that admirable. It's not that I harbor any ill will toward hunters, mind you. It's simply that the whole business seems so... well, unsportsmanlike. A perfectly innocent creature going about its day, nibbling on some unappealing mountain foliage, and suddenly, *bang!* It doesn't seem quite right, does it? Like interrupting a man in the middle of a perfectly reasonable nap. There is a certain audacity in surviving to be honest, that endears me to all creatures great and small. So, here’s hoping the chamois continues to outwit the hunters, and that all of us can find a way to keep climbing up the mountains of existence, if a little bit clumsily, for as long as our legs will carry us.
