Now, pard, about this pard business. Seems like every feller I ran into out West, from the lowliest grub-slinging cook to the fanciest dandy playin' poker up in Virginia City, was callin' somebody "pard." Makes a man wonder if they'd all lost their given names in a sandstorm or somethin'. I reckon it's a right neighborly soundin' word, "pard," and it's got a ring to it, kinda like a rusty old bell that's been hangin' out in the desert sun too long. But don't you go thinkin' that just 'cause a feller calls you "pard" that he's about to give you the shirt off his back, or split his last bean with you. More times than not, it just means he doesn't know your name and ain't inclined to ask, or maybe he's got designs on your burro, or even worse, your claim. I recall once, I was sittin' by a campfire, eatin' a mess of beans that tasted suspiciously like saddle leather, when a feller sidled up and, naturally, commenced with the "pard" routine. Now, this feller looked about as honest as a three-dollar bill, and smelled like a badger had taken up residence in his trousers. He started talkin' 'bout minin' claims and the like, and before you knew it, he was tryin' to convince me that my claim, the one I'd been workin' my fingers to the bone on for six months, was actually sittin' smack-dab on top of his. Called me "pard" at least a dozen times during his little spiel. I tell you, by the time he was done, I was half-expectin' him to offer me a used toothbrush in exchange for the whole shebang. I politely informed him that my claim was perfectly legal, surveyed fair and square, and that maybe he ought to reconsider his geography. He grumbled somethin' about claim jumpers, and then wandered off, muttering about "pards" these days bein' too darn suspicious. The moral of the story, pard? Don't trust a man who calls you "pard" too freely, especially if he smells like a badger and has a proposition to sell. He's either tryin' to sell you the Brooklyn Bridge, or he's plannin' on stealin' your gold teeth while you're sleepin'.
