Winter, now there’s a subject ripe for a good yarn, and a shiver down your spine to boot. In these here territories, winter ain't no dainty, simpering damsel draped in white lace, oh no sir. She’s more like a grizzled old prospector, armed with a pickaxe of frost and a mule stubborn enough to freeze hell over. She descends upon the land with a growl, turning the majestic peaks into toothy grins of ice and burying everything else under a blanket of snow so deep a fellow could lose his entire claim in it, along with his prize burro and the deed. You’d reckon the sun would object to this icy usurpation, but she's too busy hiding behind the clouds, nursing a lukewarm cup of cosmic coffee, muttering something about early retirement. The rivers, once a-rushin' and a-tumblin' with the audacity of youth, get themselves plugged up tighter than a politician’s promise, and the very air turns sharper than a gambler's wit when he's holdin' all the aces.

Folks huddle around their stoves, lookin' about as cheerful as a condemned man eatin’ his last meal, and complainin' louder than a pack of coyotes at a full moon about everything from frozen pipes to the price of firewood. A man can’t even go outside without lookin' like an Eskimo with a hangover, bundled in layers of wool that itch worse than a mosquito bite in July. The animals, sensible creatures that they are, either hibernate like they're trying to make up for lost sleep or migrate south, probably laughin’ at us poor saps stuck in the middle of this frigid wilderness. Course, there's some beauty to it, I suppose, if you’re the sort who gets a kick out of seein' trees draped in ice lookin’ like ghostly chandeliers or watchin' snowflakes fall so thick they make the world disappear. But me? I prefer a landscape where a man can spit without his saliva turnin’ into a dang ice pellet before it hits the ground. Winter, she's a trial, a test of endurance, a lesson in the fleeting nature of summer. But mark my words, just when you're about ready to trade your boots for flippers and head south to bask in the sunshine with the lizards, old ma' nature will throw you a curveball, and before you know it, spring will be a-springin' and you’ll have forgotten all about the frozen misery. Or at least, you’ll pretend you have.
