Baden-Baden, they call it. Which is a trifle redundant, if you ask me. Like calling a cat, "Cat-Cat." One feels they might have run low on inspiration somewhere along the naming process. It's a place, you see, that has decided it is rather above the common fray, a veritable hothouse of leisure where the only strenuous activity is deciding which restorative spa water to sip next. The air itself hums with the soft susurrus of silk dresses and whispered fortunes lost (and occasionally won, though one hears less of that, naturally). The Russians are here, of course, and the French, and all those others who find themselves suddenly gifted with more coin than sense. They promenade about the Lichtentaler Allee, that verdant avenue which stretches on with a self-important grace, showing off their diamonds and their poodles, as if to prove they haven’t just stumbled out of some newly enriched cabbage patch.

One suspects the very trees are weary of the endless parade. And the water, ah, the water! It is said to cure all manner of ailments, from a touch of the vapors to an unfortunate case of lead poisoning contracted from inferior kitchen utensils. I took a sip myself, naturally, expecting a sudden burst of rejuvenation, a renewed sense of purpose, perhaps even the spontaneous composition of a sonnet. What I received, however, was a distinct and lingering taste of sulfur, which did little to improve my disposition but did, I confess, clear my sinuses remarkably well.

But let us not be entirely cynical. Baden-Baden, in its way, is a stage, and the players upon it are putting on a grand show. They are playing at being refined, at being wealthy, at being entirely untroubled by the mundane anxieties that plague the rest of us. And who are we to begrudge them their little charade? After all, even a fool can be briefly magnificent in the right costume, and even sulfurous water can provide a temporary respite from the aches and pains of a weary world. Though I remain unconvinced it will ward off lead poisoning, or indeed, prevent one from being hopelessly bored after the first day. Still, the gambling tables are ever open, and one always has the faint hope of fleecing a Russian nobleman of his newly acquired fortune. Now that, I think, would be a cure worth writing home about.
