Now, a mosque, you say? Well, I’ve seen a fair share in my wanderings, from the humble little brick affairs squatting in dusty villages, to the grand, gilded contraptions that poke their minarets skyward like accusing fingers in Constantinople. It's a curious thing, this mosque. A place where folks gather not to trade, or bicker over politics (though I wouldn’t put it past them to do a bit of grumbling about the government on the sly), but to... pray. Yes, pray! A pastime I've never quite mastered, being more accustomed to beseeching Lady Luck for a winning hand than some higher power for divine intervention.

They take it seriously, mind you. Shoes off at the door, a whole rigmarole of washing hands and feet, like they’re expecting to be inspected for dust by some persnickety celestial housekeeper. Then they line up, shoulder to shoulder, facing towards Mecca, which I'm told is a city of considerable importance – though I suspect they'd be hard-pressed to find a decent glass of whiskey there. The imam, a fellow often sporting a beard that would make a billy goat jealous, starts chanting in a language that sounds suspiciously like gargling with gravel, and the congregation follows suit, bobbing up and down like a field of wheat in a strong breeze.

It's a sight to behold, I'll grant you that. A strange sort of unison, a collective exercise in humility. I confess, I’ve stood outside a few of these establishments, scratching my head and wondering what exactly they get out of it all. Do they actually believe some benevolent force is listening in? Or is it just a habit, a comforting ritual passed down through generations, like a good recipe for fig preserves? Perhaps it’s a bit of both. After all, humanity, bless its heart, is prone to believing in all sorts of peculiar things, from spirits in the woods to the curative powers of snake oil. And who am I to judge? As long as they’re not harming anyone, let them have their prayers and their prostrations. Besides, it’s often the quietest place in town, a welcome respite from the incessant clamor of the human condition. A feller could almost learn to appreciate it, even if he never quite gets the hang of the praying part.
