Ballou, ah, Ballou! A specimen fit for Barnum's very own exhibit, I reckon. He was a lawyer by trade, though you'd never guess it from the way he argued a case, which was generally with the conviction of a lovesick calf and the eloquence of a rusty hinge. He'd arrived out West with a carpetbag full of Blackstone and a head full of grand notions, convinced he'd be the next Cicero, or at least the next Judge Lynch, if you get my drift. The problem wasn't the willin'ness, bless his cotton socks, but the wherewithal. He was possessed of an optimism so pure it could curd milk, a belief that every prospector, no matter how greasy and illiterate, was just itching to be represented by a city-slicker with legal jargon drier than desert bones.

Now, Ballou was a study in contrasts. On the one hand, he was the most tender-hearted soul this side of the Mississippi, wouldn't swat a fly, even when it was buzzing around his head like a miniature biplane. On the other, he possessed a naivete so profound, you could lose your hat in it. I recall one instance where he tried to defend a claim-jumper by arguing that the man simply "misunderstood" the concept of property rights. The jury, a collection of grizzled miners and ex-soldiers who looked like they shaved with Bowie knives, practically choked themselves laughing. The verdict came back quicker than a coyote could snatch a prairie dog.

He was always concocting some scheme to make a fortune, usually involving a new-fangled invention or a sure-fire investment opportunity. He once tried to patent a self-milking cow, a contraption so complicated even a watchmaker couldn't figure it out. Another time, he sank his entire savings into a “perpetual motion machine” that, as far as I could tell, only succeeded in perpetually collecting dust. Poor Ballou, he was a walking testament to the old adage: a fool and his money are soon parted, and frequently by a fella with a slightly better-oiled beard. But you couldn't help but like the fella. He was a good sort, just hopelessly, gloriously, bone-headedly…Ballou.
