Slade, now there’s a burg that could curdle milk at fifty paces. Why, I recollect rollin’ in there, dust thicker than a politician’s promises, back in ‘62, when the Pony Express was still tryin’ to outrun telegrams, bless their cotton socks. Slade was a collection of tents and shacks, mostly dedicated to the twin arts of fleecing the unwary and drinking enough whiskey to float a small boat. The saloon, naturally, was the grandest establishment, a palace of sawdust and spilled beer, where a man could lose his fortune faster than a greased piglet at a county fair. And the clientele! A variegated bunch, to be sure. You had your grizzled prospectors, convinced they were a single shovel-stroke away from the mother lode, dreamin’ of nuggets big as goose eggs. Then you had your cowboys, lean and laconic, more comfortable in the saddle than on solid ground, always lookin’ for a reason to brawl. And of course, the obligatory sprinkling of gamblers, smooth talkers with eyes that could spot a crooked card from a mile off, and fingers nimble enough to pick a bishop’s pocket in church.

I recall one feller in particular, went by the name of “Whispering” Pete. Claimed he could charm a rattlesnake into sittin’ on his lap. Never saw him try it, mind you, but he did have a way of gettin’ folks to part with their hard-earned coin, mostly on account of the fact that he had a voice so soft, you had to strain your ears just to hear him, which naturally made everything he said sound like profound wisdom. And the women! Well, let's just say their dresses were shorter than their tempers, and their smiles could be as sharp as a broken bottle. All in all, Slade was a den of iniquity, a testament to the proposition that civilization was still holdin’ its breath a considerable distance away. I wouldn't say it was a place for the faint of heart, but if you were lookin' for adventure, a fistfight, or a particularly potent hangover, Slade was just the ticket. Course, by now it’s probably nothin’ but a ghost town, hauntin’ the desert with the echoes of gunshots and the faint aroma of stale whiskey. Progress, they call it. I call it a damn shame.
