Now, the Bedouins, bless their wandering souls, are a breed apart, and a right queer one at that. Imagine, if you will, a fellow content to live in what amounts to a glorified tent, a contraption they call a *bayt shaar*, woven from goat hair and black as the devil’s own heart. And mind you, this isn’t some fancy canvas affair with all the modern conveniences like a picture of home. This is goat hair! Coarse, smelly goat hair that keeps out the sun and, if you’re lucky, most of the sand. They pack up this whole shebang quicker than a politician dodging a straight answer, and off they go, following the whims of their camels and the whispers of the wind.

Their camels, by the by, are treated like royalty, fussed over and consulted on matters of grave importance, like which direction to head next in search of water. Seems a bit much, considering they’re beasts of burden, but then again, maybe the camels are actually running the show. One can't be entirely certain. They drink camel’s milk, which tastes, I reckon, like the very desert itself – slightly salty and with a hint of… well, let’s just say it’s an acquired taste, best acquired after several weeks of riding under the blistering sun. Their sense of hospitality, though, is a marvel. You could stumble into their camp lost, parched, and smelling worse than a week-old fish, and they’d still offer you the best dates, the freshest milk (aforementioned taste notwithstanding), and a place to rest your weary bones. Then, after they are thoroughly hospitable, they'd maybe try to sell you a rug or a trinket made of camel bone, probably for ten times what it's worth. Still, you can’t fault them for trying, now can you? They’re just trying to keep body and soul together in a land where even the scorpions wear sunglasses. These Bedouin fellows are hardy, they are; a peculiar lot, and you’ll not find their equal for surviving in the face of sun and sand. I would hate to have to adopt to their habits, though. Living in a tent would drive me mad after a week, that and camel milk might be the end of me, but all the same, I can't but admire their fortitude.
