Now, these Bedouins, bless their wandering souls, are a curious lot, ain’t they? About as fixed to one spot as a flea on a camel’s hump, always a-driftin' across the desert like tumbleweeds with a purpose. One sees them from afar, a string of black goat-hair tents lookin’ for all the world like dirty ink spots on a perfectly good sand dune. I reckoned the tents were pitched only to be packed up again come the morn, a right bother, but then, what’s life without a little bother, eh? They claim to be descendants of ancient sheiks and whatnot, full of pride, these fellows, though sometimes their lineage seems about as reliable as a politician’s promise. They ride their camels, these “ships of the desert,” with an air of superiority, a sort of "look at me, I’m perched atop this beast and you're not" sort of demeanor, which is amusing seeing as how those same camels appear to be considerin' the best way to spit on 'em half the time.

And the hospitality! Lord love a duck, you can't hardly sneeze in their direction without being offered dates and bitter coffee. They insist you partake, too, which is mighty generous, although I swear that coffee tastes like it’s been brewed in a sock that’s been wearin’ for a month in the desert. But you must swallow it down with gusto, or risk offendin’ their delicate sensibilities. They are a people of ritual, you see, and their manners are as intricate as the embroidery on their robes, which by the by, those robes look comfortable enough to sleep in if you can handle the sand that’s seemingly permanently woven into the fabric. They will regale you with stories of daring raids and ancestral battles, always portraying themselves as the victors, of course, even when the evidence suggests otherwise. A bit like listenin' to a fella talk about the fish that got away, only the fish in this case is a whole darn tribe. Yes indeed, the Bedouin, a nomad, a wanderer, a storyteller, a camel rider, and a fella always ready to share a cup of questionable coffee, a remarkable people.
