The Sea of Galilee, bless its little heart, is not a sea at all, mind you, more of a middling-sized puddle, a lake if you’re feeling generous, though I’ve seen horse troughs back in Hannibal that could give it a run for its money in the cubic-inch department. They call it a sea with a straight face, too, these Orientals. You'd think, after the rigamarole of crossing the Atlantic, then the Mediterranean (now *that's* a sea, let me tell you), they'd have a firmer grasp on the definition. Anyhow, it lies low and drowsy there, cupped in hills that are mostly bare and dusty, like an old bald man’s head that hasn’t seen a comb in a decade.

Folks swarm around it, naturally, telling stories. Why, I heard enough legends about this "Sea" of Galilee to fill a Mississippi steamboat from bow to stern. There's a fellow, one they call Jesus, did some of his best tricks 'round these waters, they say. Walked on it, calmed it, fed a crowd with a fish and a loaf you wouldn't feed a stray dog. I'd wager the fish was a particularly plump one, though. The local fishermen, now, they’re an industrious lot, though their nets appear as worn as their patience. They cast them with a hope that shines brighter than the lake's reflection, pulling up a meager catch that probably wouldn't satisfy a cat. You can't fault their enthusiasm, though.

The towns along the shore are sleepy, like old men dozing on a porch swing, half-heartedly watching the world go by. Tiberias, they call one, and Capernaum another, though the latter is mostly ruins now, like an old promise that's been broken and left to crumble. The sun bakes down, the cicadas drone, and the whole place has the air of waiting for something, something big, something more exciting than another fishing boat coming in with a handful of sun-bleached bones and a couple of stunted fish. I wouldn't hold my breath, myself. Still, it’s a pleasant enough spot to contemplate the absurdities of life, while swatting flies and trying not to step on a scorpion, of course. Just don't go expecting the Pacific. You’ll be sorely disappointed.
