Zermatt, you say? A village clinging to the skirts of the Matterhorn like a barnacle to a ship’s hull, only far more picturesque and, I daresay, considerably less slimy. It's a place where the very air seems perfumed with the scent of pine trees and the clinking of cowbells, unless of course, you’re within earshot of a particularly boisterous gaggle of tourists, then it's more likely the aroma of eau de desperation and the clatter of poorly packed luggage. Now, the Matterhorn itself is a marvel, no question. Sticking up like a jagged tooth in the mouth of the Alps, daring any poor soul to try and scale its icy gums. I saw one fellow, looked for all the world like a fly on a wedding cake, inching his way up its face. I wagered a franc he'd be back down before sundown, either voluntarily or by way of a rather abrupt and chilly slide.

The streets, mind you, are a delightful chaos of horse-drawn carriages and electric buggies, the latter sounding for all the world like a disgruntled bumblebee in a tin can. Seems the automobile is banished, a blessed relief considering the usual antics of motorized contraptions. One might actually hear oneself think, were it not for the aforementioned bumblebees and the constant yammering of languages I couldn't possibly decipher. They sell chocolates there, naturally. Chocolates shaped like the Matterhorn, which strikes me as a bit morbid, like biting the head off a miniature mountain. One is half tempted to build a tiny Edelweiss village around the chocolate peak, and perhaps unleash a miniature avalanche upon it. The hotels, they are grand, or at least try desperately to appear so, filled with plush velvet and an army of bellhops, who look perpetually terrified of dropping a valise. And the food? Ah, the fondue! A bubbling cauldron of melted cheese, into which one plunges cubes of bread with the kind of reckless abandon usually reserved for jumping off cliffs. Quite delightful, really, until you realize you've consumed your own weight in dairy and are now facing a rather steep uphill climb back to your lodgings. A vacation for the robust of digestion, I say.
