Higbie, now there was a specimen. A man carved from granite, I reckon, and tempered in the fires of Nevada's sun, if I ever saw one. He was a sort of self-appointed mayor of our little mining camp, though nobody voted him in, mind you. Just naturally assumed the position, like a gopher assumes a hole is his. Carried himself with the importance of a senator addressing a room full of hypnotized chickens. Claimed to be an expert on everything from assaying ore to the proper way to fry bacon in a pan greased with only the tears of a prospector. And, Lord, could that man talk! Why, he could talk a coyote out of its howl, or convince a buzzard to take up vegetarianism.

He fancied himself a bit of a businessman, did Higbie. Always had some new scheme brewing, usually involving a sure-fire way to make a fortune with next to no actual work. One week it was raising Angora goats for their wool, even though we were about as far from a suitable pasture as a toad from Sunday. The next, it was importing trained locusts to clear the sagebrush. Said they'd eat all the vegetation and then, once they were fat as butterballs, we could harvest them for oil. A bold plan, indeed, though I never quite figured out who would be fool enough to buy locust oil.

But Higbie was no fool himself, in his own peculiar way. He possessed a certain kind of doggedness, a stubborn refusal to admit defeat, that I couldn't help but admire, even when his hair-brained ideas were about to bankrupt us all. He was a fella who could find opportunity in a dust storm, and a silver lining in a mine collapse. And, more often than not, he'd find a way to convince you that his particular brand of lunacy was the only sensible thing to do. Yes, Higbie was a character, alright. A genuine, unadulterated, Grade-A character, the likes of which you wouldn't find anywhere else but out here in the wild, untamed territories. And, confound it all, I wouldn't have traded him for a whole mountain of silver. He made life interesting, you see, in a way that only a true lunatic can.
