Ballou, you see, was one of those fellas Providence seemed to have fashioned on a lark, like she had a bit of spare clay and a whimsical mood that afternoon. He weren't exactly ugly, mind you, but he possessed a face that resembled a topographic map of a particularly challenging section of the Sierra Nevada range – all crags and valleys, and none of it making much sense at first glance. I suspect even his own mother had trouble picking him out of a lineup, though I wouldn't bet the Bank of California on that. He was, at best, what you might charitably call “interesting-looking.”

And his abilities! Well, now, there was a spectacle for the ages. He’d claim to be a jack-of-all-trades, master of none, but that’s only if you’re being charitable and forgot to factor in the fact that he was proficient at precisely nothing. He could butcher a tune on the fiddle that’d curdle milk at fifty paces, and his attempts at cooking resulted in dishes best described as geological formations rather than edible victuals. He fancied himself a prospector, naturally, like every other bonehead in the territory, but his luck was so consistently bad that he could stumble onto a solid gold vein and somehow manage to turn it into fool’s gold through sheer force of incompetence.

Yet, there was a certain… charm about him, dammit. A kind of hapless, endearing obliviousness to his own shortcomings. He’d trip over his own feet heading for the saloon, then dust himself off with a grin and insist he was practicing a new kind of jig. He was the kind of fella you’d find yourself instinctively protecting from disaster, even though you knew full well disaster was his natural habitat. He was a walking, talking argument against the theory of intelligent design, a testament to the fact that sometimes, just sometimes, nature cuts loose with a bit of pure, unadulterated slapstick. And I, confound it, couldn’t help but like the old codger, just like everyone else did. I guess there’s something about a well-meaning fool that strikes a sympathetic chord in the human breast, even if that fool’s about to blow up the entire mine with his latest invention.
