Now, Slade, that was a character fit to be framed and hung out for the buzzards to admire. Up to Virginia City he came, a regular bull of a man with a mustache that could sweep a bar clean, and a reputation preceding him like a dust devil kicked up by a runaway stagecoach. They said he'd been a Pony Express rider, which I reckon was believable, seeing as he had the build and the restless eye of a man who'd stared down a thousand miles of prairie and a handful of Indians looking for a scalp. Made Marshal of some godforsaken hole in the mountains he was, and by all accounts, he cleaned that town up faster than a hungry dog on a plate of scraps. 

Course, "cleaning up" in those days meant something different than sweeping the streets and planting posies. It meant dangling desperadoes from the nearest cottonwood and making examples so fearsome they'd curdle milk. Slade, you see, had a particular talent for it. He wasn’t naturally cruel, mind you, or at least he didn’t seem to be at first blush. But power, like a bottle of rotgut whiskey, had a way of changing a man. He got to enjoying the… *persuasion*, you might call it, that came with the badge. He’d sit there, calm as a summer breeze, spinning tall tales while he whittled a toothpick, all the while knowing that the poor sap in front of him was sweating bullets and questioning every life choice he’d ever made.

The stories they told about Slade! He once held a poker game with a man he'd just strung up, cutting him down every few hands to check his pulse and see if he was still good for the stakes. Now, I ain’t vouching for the truth of that tale, but it's the kind of story that sticks to a man like burrs on a wool coat. By and by, things turned sour. The marshal’s office became his personal fiefdom, and the line between lawman and outlaw blurred more than a drunkard’s vision. And like all men who get too big for their britches, Slade eventually found himself on the wrong end of a rope. Irony, ain’t it a dish best served cold… and dangling from a tree?
