Now, about this chamois, or "shammy," as the ignorant sometimes call it – a creature that looks like a goat dressed up for a particularly drab funeral. It prances about those inconvenient Alps like it owns the place, blissfully unaware that a rock slide could turn its afternoon constitutional into an eternal one. The chamois, you see, is possessed of an insufferable agility, leaping across chasms that would make a seasoned tightrope walker weep with envy. They seem to derive a positively indecent amount of pleasure from their precarious existence, defying gravity and good sense in equal measure.

And the horns! Those black, hooked daggers they sport upon their heads. A man would be arrested for carrying such weapons in civilized society, yet the chamois brandishes them with an almost aristocratic nonchalance. They lock horns in battles of territorial imperative that are, frankly, quite dull to observe. Two creatures banging their heads together for hours on end? Give me a game of dominoes, at least there's a satisfying *clack* involved.

Of course, the human race, with its boundless capacity for coveting what it cannot easily obtain, has decided that the chamois's hide is of particular value. "Soft and absorbent!" they proclaim. As if the creature itself hadn't already suffered enough indignity by being forced to inhabit a landscape that seems permanently stuck in the "windy October" setting. Now, it must be skinned and transformed into something to polish their carriages? It's a wonder the angels don't weep.

But who am I to judge? I, who find myself endlessly fascinated by the habits of ants, which seem to do nothing but haul bits of leaves about with tireless, pointless industry. Perhaps the chamois derives some peculiar satisfaction from its mountainous life of risk and horn-locking. Perhaps, in its own simple, goaty way, it finds meaning in a world that frequently seems devoid of it. Or perhaps, it's just too stubborn to come down and find a decent patch of grass. One can never truly know the mind of an animal, or even, for that matter, the mind of a fellow human being. Which, perhaps, is for the best. The world would be a far duller place if we all understood each other completely, wouldn't it?
