Carson City, you say? Why, I’ve seen towns with more life in a graveyard at midnight! It’s perched there, high up on that alkali plain, like a buzzard eyeing a discarded beef bone. The kind of place where the wind howls a mournful dirge through the sagebrush and rattles the windowpanes of saloons that see more tumbleweeds walk through the door than paying customers. Now, they call it a “city,” bless their optimistic little hearts. I reckon it earned that moniker because it has a courthouse, a few banks that probably hold more dust than gold, and enough politicians shuffling papers to populate a decent-sized ant colony. 

But let me tell you, getting to Carson is a journey in itself, a test of both man and beast. The roads are paved, more or less, with good intentions and enough potholes to swallow a stagecoach whole. The scenery? Well, let's just say if you’re partial to monotonous shades of brown and beige, then you’ve struck gold, my friend. Otherwise, you’ll be thanking your lucky stars for a good book and a strong drink to keep you company. And the people? Honest, hardworking folk, no doubt. Though, they look like they’ve been chewed up and spat out by the desert winds one too many times. I half expected to see tumbleweeds hitched to buggies and children playing hopscotch with discarded tin cans. 

They tell you there's silver in them thar hills, and I'm sure there is, for some folks anyway. The average man’s more likely to strike water than a rich vein of ore in Carson these days. But, despite its desolation and lack of excitement, Carson has a certain… charm. A lonely, sun-baked, wind-swept charm, to be sure, but charm nonetheless. It’s the kind of place that makes you appreciate a good stiff drink, a warm fire, and the company of someone who hasn’t yet succumbed to the general air of resignation. And if you happen to strike it rich? Well, don't go spending all that hard-earned silver in Carson. Head on down to Virginia City. Now *that* is a place where you can truly lose your shirt!
