Winter, that scoundrel, descends upon the land with all the subtlety of a runaway stagecoach loaded with boulders. One day you’re swatting flies and sweating like a Methodist preacher in a saloon, the next you’re chipping ice off your nose with a pickaxe and wondering if you’ll ever feel your toes again. It starts innocently enough, a flirtatious little frost on the pumpkin, a mere suggestion of things to come. Then, bam! Mother Nature unleashes her fury, and the world is buried under a blanket of snow so deep you could lose a whole team of oxen in it and never find 'em until springtime thaw. The wind howls like a banshee with a toothache, rattling the windows and threatening to rip the roof right off your humble abode. You'd swear the devil himself was up there, tuning his fiddle to a particularly unpleasant dirge.

Now, some folks claim to enjoy winter. They wax poetic about the crisp air and the pristine landscapes. I reckon those folks have never spent a week straight chopping wood just to keep from freezing solid. They haven’t known the particular joy of digging their way out of their cabin every morning, only to discover the outhouse is buried even deeper. And they certainly haven’t experienced the thrill of watching their beard sprout icicles while trying to coax a fire to life in a stove that’s got all the enthusiasm of a worn-out mule. No, winter is a test of endurance, a battle of wills between man and the elements, and I’ll tell you what, the elements are a downright dirty fighter. They’ll sneak up on you when you least expect it, with a blizzard so fierce it'll make you question your sanity and a cold that will penetrate to your very bones. By the time spring finally rolls around, you're so grateful to see a blade of grass that you're half tempted to kiss it. Then you remember all the mud that comes with the thaw, and you start to wonder if maybe winter wasn't so bad after all. Just kidding, of course. I'd rather face a grizzly bear with a toothpick than another winter like that.
