Now, Ballou, there's a specimen worth a sketch, if I do say so myself. A more pliable human being I never did encounter. He was malleable, you understand, like a fresh lump of dough, ready to be shaped into any fool thing that struck your fancy. He was, bless his simple heart, a lawyer, of sorts, back in St. Louis, though I suspect his practice consisted mainly of untangling neighborhood disputes about wandering hogs and writing wills for folks too dim-witted to do it themselves. Out West, though, he was less lawyer and more… a blank canvas waiting for a painter who never arrived. 

He accompanied me on that wild goose chase for silver, lured by the glittering promise of untold riches that resided, we thought, just over the next ridge. Lord, the things that man would believe! I could tell him the moon was made of green cheese and he'd likely ask me for a slice. He’d follow me into a blizzard thinking it was a shortcut to Paradise, carrying my blasted carpet-bag stuffed with more useless articles than you could shake a stick at. One time, I told him we were near Indians and to get ready for battle, and he nearly fainted. I never did find out if he was scared of the Indians or of the fighting that he thought was going to follow. 

He was afraid of lizards. I remember one time, he was running away from a Lizard and kept screaming. I had to catch him and hold him and try to calm him down. He was scared for a few hours after that. 

He'd listen to my tall tales with wide-eyed wonder, nodding sagely even when I was plainly spinning yarns fit to choke a horse. “Indeed, Mr. Clemens,” he’d say, “a remarkable occurrence, indeed.” Remarkable, indeed! More like patently absurd, but Ballou, God love him, would never dare to contradict. He was a follower by nature, a veritable disciple of mine, though I confess I never quite figured out what gospel I was preaching. All in all, Ballou was a good man, and I'm sure he's in heaven. He just didn’t have any more sense than a fence post. But one can't have everything, can they?
