Now, about this bucksheesh, this universal lubricant of the Eastern world, this palm-tickling persuader that oils the gears of progress (or, more often, arrests them altogether until sufficiently greased). I reckon I first encountered its potency in Cairo, a city where even the sphinx seemed to wink with an expectation, a silent, stony suggestion of a gratuity for gazing upon its timeless visage. You see, a fellow could scarcely inquire about the price of a melon without first enduring a pantomime of need from some ragged urchin, a performance so heart-rending one'd think the melon was his sole hope of salvation. And then, bless your soul, the boatman who ferried you across the Nile, why, he’d quote a price that'd make a Wall Street sharper blush, all the while hinting at the sacrifices he’d made, the children he had to feed (though they seemed remarkably well-fed for orphans reliant on river-crossing tips, I must say), and the sheer, unadulterated benevolence of his heart in even considering such a paltry sum.

It ain’t extortion, mind you, not in the way a New York politician might extort. No, it's more a… a charmingly persistent form of incentivized service. You pay a fellow not necessarily for what he’s already done, but for what he *might* do, or, more frequently, for what he promises *not* to do. Forget forgetting something you asked, let’s say. A bit of bucksheesh ensures your donkey doesn't develop a sudden, inexplicable aversion to hills right in the middle of the desert. It guarantees your luggage arrives in the same country as you do. It might even, though I make no promises, prevent a camel from spitting on your brand-new white suit. Though the whole business can be tiresome, truth be told, it’s hard to get truly riled up about it. It's as fundamental a part of the landscape as the pyramids, as necessary as the desert sun, and just as likely to leave you a bit sunburnt if you aren't prepared for its intensity. You might curse it, you might grumble, but you'll still loosen the purse strings, because in the Orient, a penny saved is a complication earned.
