Ah, the Coliseum, that grand old ruin over in Rome! Why, it's quite a spectacle, wouldn't you agree? A veritable mountain of stone, chewed on by the teeth of time and pilfered by generations of Romans needing a bit of marble for their, shall we say, less-than-colossal projects. They say gladiators fought there, lions roared, and Christians got a rather… *spirited* introduction to the afterlife. A pity, really, that the Romans didn’t think to invest in a proper circus tent. All that blood on the floorboards, quite the bother for the janitorial staff, assuming they had one. One can only imagine the Union demands those fellows would have. "Hazard pay! Extra vacation! A lifetime supply of mops!" The thought alone is enough to make a Roman emperor choke on his grapes.

Now, I’ve heard tell of various "restorations" attempted on the Coliseum over the centuries. Restorations! About as effective as trying to put Humpty Dumpty back together with super glue and a strongly worded apology. They patch it up here, prop it up there, and declare it "good as new!" All the while, it’s crumbling faster than a politician's promise after an election. Still, one must give them credit for trying, I suppose. It’s a powerful thing, nostalgia, particularly when it brings in the tourist dollars. Imagine the horror if folks stopped coming! Why, those enterprising vendors hawking miniature gladiators and "authentic" pieces of the Coliseum (which, I suspect, are just chunks of any old Roman brick they can find) would be out of business. And what then? Rome without tourist traps? Unthinkable! No, sir, the Coliseum stands, even in its dilapidated state, as a testament to the Roman Empire, to the power of spectacle, and to the enduring human need to part with one’s money in exchange for a vaguely historical trinket. A remarkable building, indeed. Though, between you and me, I’d rather spend the afternoon sipping wine and watching the pigeons fight. Far less likely to get mauled by a lion, you see.
