Ah, the Neckar! A river, they call it. Though, between you and me, Eve, a river ought to have some ambition, some gumption, some spine. The Neckar, bless its heart, seems content to meander along, tickling the toes of ancient castles and occasionally reflecting a vineyard or two. It ain’t got the roaring grandeur of the Mississippi, mind you. It wouldn't dare. More like a polite, well-bred stream that's been told repeatedly to behave itself. I saw it snaking past Heidelberg the other day, looking for all the world like a silver ribbon carelessly dropped by a giantess on her way to market. And the tourists! Lord, the tourists are thick as flies on a summer hog. All snapping pictures of the bridge, the castle, the river itself, as if they hadn't seen a river before. One fellow nearly tripped over his own feet trying to get a picture of a particularly picturesque duck – a perfectly ordinary duck, Eve, mind you. He probably thought he'd discovered some rare Neckar River Duck, fit for a king’s table. I almost felt sorry for the poor fellow, his face redder than a cardinal's britches.

And the boats! Little putt-putt boats chugging along, belching out fumes and disturbin' the peace like a noisy gaggle of geese. Each one crammed with tourists, pointing and gabbing in a dozen different languages, all sayin' pretty much the same thing: "Look, a castle! Look, a vineyard! Look, more water!" One wonders what they'll tell the folks back home. "The Neckar," they'll say, "is quite watery." Well, duh. I saw a couple of fellows fishing the other day. One looked like he hadn't caught anything in a decade, his face permanently etched with disappointment. The other one had a look of such profound concentration on his face, you'd think he was trying to decipher the secrets of the universe. I wagered a penny he wasn’t gonna catch anything either. The Neckar, you see, keeps its secrets close. It may look docile and demure, but I suspect it knows a thing or two about the foolishness of mankind, and it ain't about to give up its secrets to some fool with a fishing rod. Though, between us girls, Eve, it's probably just empty anyway.
