Now, Morgan, there was a specimen, fit to make a saint swear and a buzzard weep. He came to Virginia City lookin' like a lost sheep in a sandstorm, all squinty eyes and a beard that hadn't seen a comb since Noah docked the Ark. Claimed he was a "prospector," which in these parts means either a feller huntin' for riches or one huntin' for an excuse not to work, and truth be told, Morgan leaned more toward the latter. He could spin a yarn faster than a hummingbird's wings beat, full of lost Spanish mines and veins of silver so thick you could pave the streets of Carson City with 'em. Trouble was, Morgan never actually found these mines, 'cept maybe in his dreams, fueled by rotgut whiskey and a generous imagination.

He spent most of his time in the saloon, holdin' court with anyone foolish enough to buy him a drink, regalin' them with tales of his supposed exploits. He'd puff out his chest, which, mind you, wasn't much of a chest to begin with, and describe fightin' off claim jumpers, outsmartin' grizzlies, and dodgin' arrows from Indians who, he insisted, mistook him for a deity. Why they'd mistake Morgan for a deity is a mystery that even the Almighty might struggle to unravel. He wasn't handsome, he wasn't strong, and his personal hygiene left somethin' to be desired – unless you had a hankerin' for the subtle aroma of stale beer and unwashed socks.

But darn if he wasn't entertainin'. He had a way of bendin' the truth until it snapped clean in two, and you'd be left laughin' so hard you wouldn't care that you were bein' taken for a ride. He'd borrow money with the enthusiasm of a starving coyote, promis'n' to pay it back tenfold as soon as he struck it rich. And he always struck it rich, at least in his stories. Never saw a cent of it myself, but I reckon Morgan's worth lay not in his pockets, but in his ability to turn a dull day into a circus, filled with lies and laughter and the faint suspicion that maybe, just maybe, he was tellin' the truth, however improbable that might be.
