Now, Morgan, there was a specimen. A feller from back East, fresh off the boat train with a bankroll thicker than a Sunday School bible and an idea in his head so big it crowded out everything else, including common sense. Claimed he was going to make his fortune raising silkworms, right here in the Nevada desert. Silkworms! As if the jackrabbits weren't trouble enough, now we got to worry about a plague of silk-spinning caterpillars chewing up our sagebrush? I swear, the man never saw a tumbleweed in his life, let alone understood the kind of sun that'd fry an egg on a rock before noon.

He built himself a ramshackle affair he called a "sericultural establishment," all flimsy wood and hope, right next to the dry creek bed. Ordered himself a mountain of mulberry leaves all the way from California, costing him a small fortune in freight alone. Then, bless his heart, he set about feeding his imported worms, who promptly died. Not all at once, mind you, that would have been too merciful. They withered, they shrank, they turned a peculiar shade of yellowish-brown, and then, with a final, pathetic wriggle, they gave up the ghost. Now, I ain't no silkworm expert, but I reckon the air was too dry, the sun too fierce, and the food too, well, too damn Californian for their delicate sensibilities.

Poor Morgan, he tried everything. Sprinkled water, built awnings, even hired a Piute Indian to sing lullabies to the infernal critters. Nothing worked. The desert, she just laughed at him. By the time his money ran out, he was thinner than a prospector's grubstake and looked about as lively as his defunct silkworms. He sold his "establishment" for a song and disappeared back East, presumably to bore some other innocent souls with tales of the untamable West. Last I heard, he was trying to market desert-flavored silk, claiming it possessed a certain… "rustic… aroma." Lord only knows what poor soul ended up buying that. Some fellers just ain't cut out for this life. They come out here with grand notions, fancy ideas, and no understanding of the land. End up looking like a fool, and teaching the rest of us a valuable lesson about leaving well enough alone.
