Higbie, now there was a specimen. You wouldn't mistake him for a saint, unless your definition of saint involved a remarkable talent for storytelling lubricated by prodigious quantities of Old Monongahela whiskey. He hailed from somewhere back East, Pennsylvania, I believe, though his accent had been worn smooth by years of buffeting against the rough edges of the West. Claimed he’d been a lawyer, but I figured that was about as likely as finding a gold mine paved with pews. He had that lawyerly way of turning a simple “yes” or “no” into a five-minute discourse, though Higbie’s discourses were usually far more entertaining than any legal arguments I ever heard.

He was a study in contrasts, Higbie was. He could spin you a yarn about his youth, filled with righteous deeds and pious pronouncements, and then, without a breath, cheat you blind in a poker game with a deck he'd clearly marked whilst he was spinning the yarn. He was all bluster and bombast one minute, roaring about the injustices of the world and the venality of politicians, and the next he was weeping into his whiskey over a lost love he couldn't quite remember the name of, but whose beauty, he insisted, surpassed even the angels.

His mining skills were, shall we say, underwhelming. He was more likely to stumble over a gold nugget than to actually find one through diligent prospecting. Yet, he always managed to land on his feet, usually with some outrageous scheme or another that somehow, against all odds, managed to provide for him. He was like a cat, that Higbie, always landing on his feet, and usually with a bit of someone else's butter on his whiskers. He had a way about him, though. A charm, I suppose you could call it, though it was a charm that came liberally sprinkled with a healthy dose of con. You knew he was likely fleecing you, yet you found yourself enjoying the process immensely. He was a rogue, no doubt, but a rogue of such captivating dimension that one couldn't help but find a soft spot for the old buzzard. And Lord knows, in those days, a good story and a good laugh were worth more than all the gold in California.
