Well, I must confess, this business of zoology is a curious affair, what with all the creatures Great Nature has seen fit to populate the earth with. Take the chamois, for instance. A beast of the mountainous persuasion, a sort of goat-antelope hybrid, as if Nature had a bit of spare parts lying about and decided to cobble something new together on a whim. Now, I've never been one for clambering up precipices myself – give me a comfortable veranda and a mint julep any day – but I’m told these chamois are rather adept at it. They prance and leap about on those perilous slopes with an audacity that would make a seasoned acrobat blush. One wonders if they even look down, or if they possess some secret knowledge that gravity is merely a suggestion.

They're rather handsome creatures, too, I must admit. A coat of reddish-brown, all sleek and shimmering in the alpine sun, and a pair of horns that curl back like elegant question marks, as if perpetually pondering the meaning of existence in such a precarious setting. Or, perhaps, they're just wondering where the next patch of Edelweiss is to be found. They seem to be a rather social bunch, too, these chamois. I hear they gather in herds, chattering amongst themselves in a language I, alas, have not yet deciphered. Perhaps they are trading scandalous gossip about the mountain goats, or perhaps simply lamenting the tediousness of eating only alpine herbs.

And then there's the peculiar matter of the "chamois leather" that is so highly prized. Imagine, after all this prancing and leaping, after enduring blizzards and treacherous terrain, to end up as a cleaning rag for some dandy’s spectacles. It strikes me as a most undignified end for a creature of such spirited independence. But then again, such is the way of the world, is it not? Beauty and grace one moment, utility the next. It certainly gives one pause to consider the vanity of all earthly ambition, doesn't it? But, I digress. Back to the chamois. A beast both impressive and slightly absurd, much like humanity itself, if I may say so.
