Genoa, ah, Genoa! A city that clings to the Ligurian coast like a barnacle on a rusty schooner, all steep streets and crumbling grandeur. One might be forgiven for thinking it a place perpetually in a state of pleasant, picturesque decay. The first impression is, naturally, bewildering. Imagine, if you will, a city constructed by an architect who possessed a profound love for mazes and a healthy disregard for the comfort of the traveler. Streets twist and turn with a fiendish glee, frequently narrowing to the width of a well-fed cat and always, always, angling uphill. A man could get lost here faster than a politician telling the truth, and find himself staring down a lane populated solely by cats, all of whom appear to be judging his fashion sense. 

The palaces, though! Palatial indeed, even with their flaking paint and sun-bleached facades. One can almost hear the echoes of Doges and merchant princes haggling over silks and spices, no doubt cheating each other with a smile as wide as the harbor. And the harbor itself! A veritable stew of activity, smelling strongly of fish, diesel, and the faint, underlying aroma of historical significance. Sailors from every corner of the earth seem to congregate here, their voices blending into a cacophony that would make a parrot blush. One imagines that if all the lies told within a stone's throw of the docks were somehow collected and condensed, they could power the city for a year.

And the Genoese themselves, a hardy lot, weathered like the cliffs they call home. They seem to possess a unique talent for arguing loudly and passionately about matters of absolutely no consequence. A man could get an education in Italian invective just by eavesdropping on a conversation between two old women haggling over the price of basil. They are, in short, a people as complex and intriguing as their city, capable of both breathtaking generosity and breathtaking stubbornness. In the end, Genoa is a place that clings to the memory, like a stubborn old sea dog clinging to a barnacle-encrusted anchor. It may not be pretty in the conventional sense, but it possesses a charm, a grit, and a peculiar sort of beauty that one simply cannot find anywhere else.
