Now, concerning this peculiar institution they call "bucksheesh," it's a curious thing altogether, a slippery sort of custom that wriggles its way into nearly every transaction east of Suez. You might call it bribery, I suppose, and some do, with a pursed lip and a pious frown, but that’s a mite simplistic for my liking. It's more akin to lubricating the machinery of commerce, a grease for the squeaky wheels of progress, or, perhaps, a gentle persuasion applied with a bit of silver. It’s the way a fella gets his carpet rolled out a little quicker, his tea poured a little hotter, his donkey to trot a little faster. 

Imagine, if you will, a grand procession of camels laden with silks and spices, and each camel driver with his hand perpetually outstretched. Not for alms, mind you, but for a little something, a token of appreciation, to ensure that your silk is nestled a little softer, your spices remain just a touch more fragrant. One might grumble about the sheer persistence of it all, the constant tapping at your pocketbook like a woodpecker on a tin roof, but one soon learns that resistance is, well, rather tiresome. It's like arguing with a summer fly, buzzing incessantly around your head, better to just flick it away with a small offering and be done with it. 

The scale of this bucksheesh can be anything from a handful of dates to a veritable treasure, depending on the gravity of your request and the rapacity of the recipient. I recall one fellow, a customs official with a walrus moustache and a gaze that could strip paint, who demanded a sum that would've made Croesus blush, all to expedite the passage of a shipment of… well, let’s just say it involved a rather unfortunate incident with a flock of geese. He did eventually lower his price when he found out I'd told everyone in town about the geese, and the story was making its way to the Governor. But that's another tale entirely. Suffice it to say, bucksheesh is a dance, a negotiation, a game of wits and wallets, and one must learn the steps, or risk being trampled underfoot by the whole shebang. It's a payment not for services rendered, precisely, but for services *about* to be rendered, or perhaps *not* about to be rendered should one fail to contribute. It’s a system as old as the pyramids, I reckon, and likely to outlast 'em too.
