Lucerne, they call it, and a right pretty little place it is, though I confess, I’ve seen villages in the States that boast more in the way of saloons and fewer madly grinning cherubs carved onto every available surface. One suspects the Swiss have a surplus of cherubs, like we have of corn in Kansas. But don't let me sour the milk, for Lucerne has its charms, even for an unregenerate like myself. There's a lake, you see, a veritable looking-glass of a lake, reflecting those snow-dusted Alps like a dandy admiring his reflection in a shop window. Only, these Alps don't preen, they just stand there, impossibly majestic, as if daring you to try and climb them in your Sunday best. Then there's the Chapel Bridge, that covered wooden thing strung across the Reuss river. Pleasant enough, to be sure, though crammed with paintings of local heroes who, judging by their solemn expressions, never had a good joke told in their presence. I imagine their spouses were equally humorless, poor souls. Now, I did try to decipher the stories they depicted, these paintings, but ended up more confused than a cat in a roomful of rocking chairs. Apparently, there was a fire, a shipwreck, and some manner of medieval squabble involving a swan. One begins to suspect the Swiss are easily impressed. The lion monument, carved into a cliff-face to commemorate some guards who got themselves killed defending a French king – well, that’s something to see, even if it is a bit morbid. A noble beast, stricken, yet somehow still regal. Makes you want to tip your hat, though I’m not quite sure why. And everywhere, I mean *everywhere*, there are clockmakers. The townsfolk are obsessed with time. I suppose that’s what happens when you live in a land where mountains cast long shadows and the only excitement is watching the cuckoo pop out of a wooden box. Time hangs heavy, I reckon, and they feel the need to keep a close watch on it, lest it steal away what little amusement they have. All in all, Lucerne is a decent enough place to spend a week, provided you have a strong constitution, a fondness for cherubs, and a pocketful of coins to buy a cuckoo clock you don't really need.
