Brigham Young, now there’s a name that clings to the memory like sagebrush to a tenderfoot’s trousers. He was a man built for the business of empire-building, though perhaps a touch heavy on the “empire” and light on the “building” – at least in the architectural sense. You wouldn’t catch him fussing over cornices or quibbling about the right shade of adobe; no, Brigham was more concerned with expanding his flock, and rumor has it, his marital collection as well. Some folks claim he had wives enough to populate a small town, and judging by the number of Youngs bouncing around Salt Lake, I reckon there’s a grain of truth to that. He was a practical man, though, Brigham, and saw to it that each wife had her own dwelling and her own patch of earth to till. Probably kept the peace that way, though I wouldn't fancy his chances if he ever forgot a birthday or misremembered a favorite color.

He led those Mormons across the plains like Moses leading the Israelites, though instead of the Promised Land flowing with milk and honey, they got a salty desert and a whole lot of hard work. But Brigham wasn't one to be deterred by a little adversity. He set them to irrigating, damming up the creeks, and planting crops where nothing but lizards and tumbleweeds had ever dared to grow before. Some say he was a visionary, others say he was a despot. I’d wager he was a bit of both, as most fellows who leave their mark on history tend to be. He had a way of bending folks to his will, that Brigham, a sort of iron will wrapped in a velvet glove – though the velvet might have been a bit threadbare in spots. He ruled his kingdom with an iron fist, yes, but he also provided for his people, kept them fed, and gave them a sense of purpose in that desolate land. And whether you admired him or reviled him, you couldn’t deny that Brigham Young was a force of nature, a man who tamed the wilderness and built a kingdom where nobody thought it possible. A shrewd customer, to be sure, and one I wouldn't want to cross, unless I had a mighty strong hand to play and a good lawyer on standby.
