Slade, now that’s a name that could curdle milk in a parson’s tea. A proper, rip-roaring villain of the first water, he was, back in the days when the Pony Express was still a-kickin’. I tell you, the man could scare a coyote into paralysis. Why, I saw him once, just once mind you, strollin' into the Overland Stage office in Rocky Ridge, lookin' like he'd just swallowed a thunderstorm. Had a face carved from granite, and eyes that could drill a hole through a boiler. He weren't no fop, Slade. Clothes fit him like a second skin of dirt and danger, and he had this way of movin', quiet and swift, like a snake in the grass. They said he was a terror to the road agents, a protector of the mail, a champion of civilization, all that rot. But I reckon he was mostly a terror, plain and simple.

He'd been a division superintendent, you see, for the stage company, and had a way of enforcing order that made judge Lynch look like a Sunday school teacher. Stories flew about him like tumbleweeds in a gale. Some said he’d personally strung up twenty men with his own two hands, others claimed it was closer to thirty. I never saw him do it myself, understand, but I wouldn't bet my last dollar against it. They said he once shot a man for lookin' at him crosseyed, then calmly ordered a whiskey and played cards with the corpse all night. Probably a tall tale, mind you, but the air around Slade was thick with that sort of legend.

The strangest part was, he wasn’t always mean. Could be downright sociable at times, buyin' drinks for the whole saloon and tellin' yarns that would make a preacher blush. But underneath that smile, you always knew there was a volcano waitin’ to erupt. It made a man nervous, bein' around him. You’d find yourself agreein’ with everything he said, even if it didn’t make a lick of sense, just to avoid drawin’ his attention. They say he finally met his end in Montana, accused of some trumped-up charges. Justice in those days, you see, was a fickle thing, dependin' on who had the biggest gun and the loudest friends. But even hangin' from the gallows, they say he glared down at the crowd with those granite eyes, and the silence was so thick you could cut it with a bowie knife. A legend, Slade was. A legend best admired from a considerable distance, with a healthy respect for the consequences.
