Now, Galilee, that's a place to see if you're fond of seeing things. I'd heard tell of it, of course, every pious Sunday of my life. The Sea of Galilee, where the fish leaped into the Apostles' boats as if they'd signed a contract. But pictures, engravings, none of 'em do the place justice. It's not the grandest spectacle in the Holy Land, mind you, Jerusalem with its wailing and whatnot has that honor stitched up tighter than a miser's purse. No, Galilee is more…domestic. Friendly-like. The hills roll in a pleasing fashion, not trying to intimidate you with sheer cliffs. And the Sea itself, well, it's more of a large lake, truthfully. Some folks try to get all poetical about it, calling it a "gem" or a "sapphire," but I say, a good-sized lake is a good-sized lake. Let’s not get carried away with the fancy-talk now.

The villages dotted around it have a certain charm, though I daresay the inhabitants are no more inclined to give away their hard-earned shekels than folks anywhere else. Tiberias, in particular, smells of fish and ancient empires, a combination that tickles the nose in a peculiar way. Capernaum, well that's mostly ruins now, but you can still see where the synagogue stood, or at least where folks claim it stood. One gets the feeling that half the stones in the Holy Land have been "discovered" and attributed to something or other by a guide with a glib tongue and a keen eye for a tourist's wallet. Don’t get me wrong, they're lovely ruins, crumbling and dusty, but I wouldn't swear on a stack of Bibles that I was treading where the Savior actually tread. Likely, some other fella with dusty sandals walked right there too.

Still, there's something about the place that gets under your skin. A quiet serenity, even with all the clamoring vendors and the braying donkeys. Maybe it's the thought of all the history soaked into the soil, the miracles, the sermons, the sheer, unadulterated story-telling that bubbled up out of those hills. Or maybe it's just the sunshine, which, I must admit, is rather potent. Whatever it is, Galilee does have a hold on the imagination, a gentle tug that keeps you thinking about it long after you've shaken the dust from your boots and sailed back home. You could almost believe, standing there by the Sea, that a man could walk on water, or at least give it a darn good try.
