Now, Morgan, there was a fella cut from a different cloth than your average Nevada prospector. Not that he struck it rich, mind you, gold eluded him like a greased pig at a county fair. But he possessed a richness all his own, a peculiar brand of optimism that could curdle milk at twenty paces. He claimed to be a surveyor, though the only thing he surveyed with any regularity was the inside of a saloon and the bottom of a whiskey bottle. He'd talk a blue streak about angles and azimuths, but you’d be hard-pressed to get him to draw a straight line on a map, even if his life depended on it.

He arrived in these parts sporting a beard that looked like a tumbleweed after a particularly nasty dust storm and a battered valise filled with more tall tales than surveying instruments. Claimed he’d surveyed the entire Amazon basin, single-handedly, dodging jaguars and cannibals while simultaneously inventing a new system of land measurement that would make Euclid weep with envy. I suspected the Amazon basin he referred to was more akin to the wash basin outside the Eagle Saloon, but who was I to burst his bubble?

He had a knack for attracting trouble, bless his heart. Once, he tried to "improve" the town's water supply by diverting a stream through a series of meticulously designed trenches, the only problem being the stream ended up flooding Widow Higgins’ prize-winning geraniums and turning Main Street into a passable imitation of the Mississippi during springtime. The Widow, bless her soul, chased him for three blocks with a broom and a vocabulary that would make a seasoned mule skinner blush.

And yet, despite all the chaos and bluster, there was something undeniably likeable about old Morgan. He had a way of looking at the world, like he knew a secret nobody else did, a secret that made the hardships and disappointments of life seem like mere inconveniences. He never lost faith in the possibility of striking it rich, even after years of finding nothing but fool's gold and heartache. He was a walking contradiction, a lovable rogue, and a reminder that sometimes, the richest treasures aren’t found in the ground, but in the spirit of a man who can still find a reason to laugh in the face of adversity, even if he is standing knee-deep in Widow Higgins' flooded geraniums.
