Ballou, now there was a specimen. A feller green enough to think a coyote was just a lonesome dog howlin’ for supper, and honest enough to think a politician actually meant half of what he spewed forth from his gullet. He arrived out West, bless his simple heart, lookin’ like a freshly plucked daisy in a field of sagebrush. Dressed in a suit that probably saw its last sunshine in a New England parlor, and carryin’ a carpetbag that likely contained nothin’ but sermons and starched collars. He was a tenderfoot, alright, so tender he practically bruised if you just looked at him sideways.

He had this way of askin’ questions, see, that’d make a seasoned prospector want to bury him up to his neck in alkali dust. Questions like, “Are those mountains quite as high as they appear, sir?” Or, “Does the average rattlesnake appreciate a kind word and a gentle pat?” Bless his cotton socks. We tried to toughen him up, of course, learned him how to handle a mule, though the mule mostly handled him. Showed him the finer points of swillin’ down rotgut whiskey, though he mostly ended up lookin’ like he’d swallowed a whole bee hive.

Tried to teach him the lingo, too, but Lord, it was like tryin’ to teach a canary to bark. He’d say things like, “I perceive yon avian specimen is expressing its displeasure in a rather vociferous manner,” when a scrub jay was just squawkin’ at him for lookin’ so foolish. He was, in short, a perpetual source of amusement, this Ballou. But under all that greenhorn charm, there was somethin’ else, a stubborn streak of decency and a genuine willin’ness to learn. And you know, after a few months of hard knocks and dust-devil lessons, he started to sprout a bit of callouses, both on his hands and his brain. He never quite lost that green sheen, mind you, but he learned to dodge a bullet, curse a mule, and appreciate the quiet beauty of a desert sunrise. Made a feller almost proud to call him a friend, even if he did still insist on wearin’ that ridiculous suit to Sunday supper.
