Harris, now there's a specimen fit to puzzle the Almighty Himself, though I suspect He's seen worse. A man built like a haystack after a tornado took a notion to rearrange it, all elbows and knees and a perpetual air of bewildered optimism. He fancies himself a judge of character, does Harris, which is akin to a blind mule critiquing a painting – the intention might be admirable, but the execution, Lord help us. He'll tell you he can spot a liar a mile off, then turn around and invest his life savings in a patent medicine guaranteed to cure baldness and make you irresistible to widows. He approaches every task, no matter how simple, with the solemnity of a surgeon about to perform brain surgery, and the results, well, they’re often about as successful. I recall once he decided to build a chicken coop, declared it would be the envy of every hen in the county. By the time he was done, it resembled less a sanctuary for fowl and more a miniature leaning tower of Pisa, likely to collapse at the first sign of a stiff breeze, and probably scaring the chickens more than the foxes ever could. And his stories! Oh, the stories. They meander like a river lost in a swamp, full of unexpected turns, dead ends, and the occasional alligator lurking beneath the surface. He’ll start with a simple account of buying a loaf of bread and end up narrating a harrowing tale of a runaway hot air balloon and a near-death experience involving a flock of particularly aggressive pigeons. You never quite know where you're going with Harris, but you can be certain it will be a journey filled with enough outlandishness to stock a traveling circus, and leave you questioning the very fabric of reality, and perhaps, your own sanity. Yet, bless his heart, he's got a goodness about him, a naive belief in the best of humankind, that keeps him bumbling along, a walking, talking testament to the enduring power of well-intentioned ineptitude. He’s a reminder that even in a world rife with rascality and humbuggery, there’s still room for a fellow who can, with the best of intentions, make a complete and utter fool of himself, and do it with a smile.
