Chamonix, they call it. A veritable pit stop for the ambitious ant, striving to conquer that frozen confection, Mont Blanc. I arrived there, bless my cotton socks, expecting perhaps a village of pastoral charm, filled with yodelling goats and rosy-cheeked milkmaids. Instead, I found a throng of mountaineers, a hodgepodge of nationalities sporting enough ropes and ironmongery to outfit a medium-sized warship. And the women! Oh, my dear, they were worse than the men, practically bristling with pickaxes and a determination that could melt glaciers all by itself. One suspects they're driven to this perilous ascent by a desire to escape their husbands, or perhaps, to acquire a husband even bolder than the last. One simply cannot fathom any other reasonable explanation for such a perilous pursuit. The air itself vibrates with tension and the aroma of overpriced fondue. They all chatter away in tongues both elegant and guttural, discussing crampons and crevasse rescue techniques as if they were discussing the proper way to fold a napkin.

The town, naturally, caters to this peculiar species. Shops overflowing with enough cold-weather paraphernalia to make a polar bear feel inadequate. They sell you contraptions that measure wind speed, devices that predict avalanches, and even something they call a "pee funnel" for the fairer sex to…well, one shudders to imagine the necessity! And the prices! One might be better off simply tossing a wad of banknotes directly into the mountain's maw, for all the good it does clinging to one's purse. Still, the scenery, if you can ignore the sheer terror it inspires, is undeniably impressive. Gigantic, snow-capped peaks stabbing the sky, glaciers rumbling with the discontent of ancient giants, and a general feeling that you're standing in the anteroom of the Almighty. One can't help but think, though, that God probably designed this particular anteroom with a mischievous grin and a decided lack of handrails. And let me tell you, dear reader, with all that icy splendor, a good cup of hot chocolate is more than welcome.
