Lucerne, you see, is one of those towns that’s prettied itself up somethin’ fierce, like a middle-aged widow tryin’ to reel in a younger gentleman with a fancy wig and a suspiciously tight corset. There’s the lake, oh my stars, the lake! All sapphire shimmer and reflecting the Alps so precisely you’d swear you could reach out and pluck a snow-capped peak like a ripe pear off a celestial tree. And the swans! A perfect plague of swans, all arrogance and gluttony, beggin' crumbs from the tourists with an audacity that would make a politician blush. They float about like feathery icebergs, preening and hissing, lookin’ for all the world as if they own the place. Which, mind you, they practically do, considerin’ the racket they raise should a body dare to withhold a crust of bread. The covered bridges are another spectacle, all dark wood and creakin’ underfoot, adorned with paintings depicting events of the olden days. Some are pious, some are gruesome, all are rather poorly executed, truth be told, makin’ you wonder if the artists were spendin' more time imbibin’ the local grape than honing their craft. Then there’s Mount Pilatus, reachable by a contraption of cogwheel and prayer, and Mount Rigi, which everyone insists offers a better view but is, I suspect, merely closer to the hotel bars. The tourists, bless their hearts, flock to it all like moths to a flickering gas lamp, snapping pictures of every dog, every building, every blooming geranium, as if fearin’ they might forget the precise shade of Swiss red. And the shops, well, they sell everything you never knew you didn’t need, from cuckoo clocks that mock the passage of time with their infernal chirping, to pocket knives with more gadgets than a tinkerer’s workshop, all emblazoned with the Swiss cross, just in case you somehow forgot where you were. Lucerne, in short, is a confection of charming clichés, a carefully curated performance designed to extract every last franc from the pockets of the unsuspecting traveller. But you know what? Darned if it ain't pretty.
