Now, the Neckar. One might be forgiven for expecting something grander, what with all the fuss made over it by those Heidelberg romantics. I confess, I myself half anticipated a frothy, tumultuous current, perhaps even a waterfall or two thrown in for good measure. But no, the Neckar, bless its placid heart, is more akin to a comfortable, well-worn river than a dramatic, showy spectacle. It ambles along, you see, like a portly burgher after a hearty midday meal, content to reflect the quaint houses and turreted castles that line its banks with a dignified sort of nonchalance. There’s nary a ripple of excitement to be had, unless you count the occasional swan, who, with a sense of self-importance entirely unwarranted by his aquatic abilities, glides along as though he owns the entire blessed stretch of water.

The tourists, of course, find it charming. They gawk and point and snap their infernal contraptions, immortalizing the Neckar in countless photographs that will, no doubt, make their way back to Peoria or Pittsburgh or wherever it is folks hail from these days. They’ll tell their friends all about the "picturesque" scenery, the "romantic" castles, and the "quaint" towns that cling to the riverbanks like ivy to an old wall. And who am I to disillusion them? Let them have their romantic notions! After all, there’s a certain comfort in believing that the world is as pretty and idyllic as a postcard. Though, between you and me, I suspect a good deal of that romanticism is fueled by the local wines, which, I might add, are considerably more spirited than the Neckar itself. Still, one can’t deny the river possesses a certain unassuming grace. It's a bit like that unassuming fellow in your neighborhood who, while not the most dazzling individual, is always there, a steady presence, quietly going about his business. And sometimes, that’s precisely what a body needs – a little bit of quiet, unassuming steadiness in a world determined to be loud and dramatic. Just don't expect it to set your soul ablaze, unless you happen to fall in, of course, in which case, I imagine you'd find it rather invigorating.
