Winter in the Great Basin country? Why, it's a spectacle worthy of both terror and amusement, a right proper Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde affair, I tell you. At first blush, she arrives all dressed in white, like some blushing bride, innocent and pure, sprinkling the alkali dust with a soft, fluffy down that makes a man almost forget the blistering sun and the choking dryness of summer. Then, quick as a card sharp dealing from the bottom, she turns on you. That "down" morphs into a biting, shrieking fiend of a wind, howling down from the Sierras with a vengeance, determined to freeze the whiskers off a brass monkey. The thermometer, it plunges faster than a miner spotting a vein of Comstock silver going dry, settling somewhere south of tolerable and well into the realm of pure, unadulterated misery.

Now, some folks will try to tell you about the "beauty" of the frozen landscape, the crystalline perfection of the snowdrifts, the majestic starkness of the barren trees. Don't you believe a word of it. Those are the ramblings of a man who's been spending too much time with rotgut whiskey and not enough time chopping wood. The beauty, you see, is cleverly disguised beneath layers of inconvenience, discomfort, and a constant, gnawing fear that you'll never get the stove lit again. The roads, they become treacherous ribbons of ice, capable of sending a stagecoach, and its unfortunate passengers, careening into the nearest ravine. The animals, they huddle together, shivering and miserable, looking at you with eyes that seem to ask, "Why, oh why, did you ever settle in this godforsaken land?" And you, well, you find yourself spending an unconscionable amount of time wrapped in enough layers to resemble a walking mattress, cursing the very notion of winter, and secretly praying for spring to arrive before you turn into a human icicle. Still, gotta admit, there's a certain rugged charm to it all, like watching a bear fight a porcupine – you know it's going to be messy and painful, but you can't help but watch with a morbid sort of fascination.
