The Mormons, bless their peculiar hearts, are a sight to behold out here in the Great Basin. I reckon I've seen stranger things in a whiskey-fueled dream after a week of prospecting, but a fella can't help but be a little dumbfounded by 'em. They're thick as fleas on a mangy coyote, swarming around Salt Lake City like bees around a honey pot, buzzing about their business with a seriousness that'd make a funeral director crack a grin. Brigham Young, now there’s a fellow who could talk the hind legs off a mule, and did, right into building himself a kingdom in the desert. He had wives scattered around like buckshot, they say, each tending to her own little patch of domesticity and, likely, a growing brood of future saints. It's a whole different kind of arithmetic when you're divvying up affection amongst so many, and Lord knows how he kept track of all the birthdays and anniversaries. I've seen men struggle to remember their one wife's name after a couple of swigs of redeye, so Brigham's feat is a marvel, a testament to either superhuman memory or a carefully constructed system of ledgers and reminders.

Their faith, well, it’s a bit like a stew made with every spice in the pantry; a pinch of this, a dollop of that, and a whole lot of scripture that ain’t in my King James. They preach of golden plates and angelic visitations, a lost tribe of Israel traipsing around America, and a prophet named Joseph Smith who found it all buried under a rock. Now, I'm not one to argue with a man’s faith, especially when he’s got a dozen sons who can handle a rifle, but it does make a fella scratch his head and wonder if perhaps the desert sun’s gotten to him a bit. They’re hard workers, though, you have to give 'em that. They turned that barren valley into a blooming paradise, irrigating the land with a determination that'd put a beaver to shame. And they're honest as the day is long, or at least, that’s what they tell you. I've heard a few whispers about shady dealings, of course, but then again, I've heard whispers about everything out here, including gold deposits so rich they'd make Croesus blush, and I ain't seen any of that yet. All told, the Mormons are a curious bunch, a puzzle wrapped in a riddle and served with a side of fry sauce. I wouldn't trade 'em for a wagon load of mule shoes, though. They make life in the West a darn sight more interesting, and besides, somebody's got to keep the whiskey flowing when the preachers come to town.
