Now, concerning this edifice they call a mosque, it's a curious affair, altogether. I reckon the first thing that strikes a fella is the ornamentation. It ain’t your plain-spoken, clapboard church back in Hannibal, no sir. They've got arches and domes that reach for the heavens like a hound dog sniffin’ out a particularly ripe possum. And the colors! Why, Joseph’s coat was drab in comparison. Blues that shimmer like the desert sky at dusk, golds that gleam like a riverbed panned clean, and greens as verdant as a gambler’s wallet after a lucky hand. Some folks might call it gaudy, but I wouldn't dare. It’s certainly got a theatrical flair, I’ll grant you that, like a Mississippi showboat dressed up for a high-society dance.

But it ain’t all just pretty pictures and fancy bricklaying. Inside, it’s a different story. You take off your shoes, mind you – can’t go tracking mud into the House of God, no matter what flavor of God you subscribe to – and then you're hit with a coolness, a quietude that settles over you like a dust sheet on a forgotten piano. The floor is usually covered in carpets, soft and thick, fit for a king, or at least a prosperous hog farmer. Folks are kneeling, bending, touching their foreheads to the ground. It’s a whole rigmarole of prostration, like they’re trying to apologize to the earth for something, or perhaps just getting a better angle on finding buried treasure.

They read from a book in a language I can’t rightly decipher, but the sing-songy sound of it is rather pleasant, like a lullaby for grown men. Seems like a lot of mumbo jumbo to me, but then again, so does half the stuff that comes out of a lawyer’s mouth. Still, there’s a feeling in the air, a sense of reverence, that even a hard-boiled skeptic like myself can't entirely dismiss. It's as if they believe, truly believe, that something bigger than themselves is looking down, keeping score, and maybe, just maybe, that’s not such a bad thing to believe in after all. Although, I still maintain that a good poker game on a Saturday night is a far more reliable path to earthly salvation.
