Zermatt, they call it. A village perched, you see, like a particularly stubborn goat upon the slopes of the Alps, so high up that one half expects to sneeze and find oneself tumbled head-over-heels into Italy. The air, oh, the air is so confoundedly pure it could cure a politician of prevarication, though I wouldn’t wager my best necktie on the likelihood of that particular miracle. Now, mind you, the place is chock-full of tourists, a veritable plague of well-intentioned wanderers clomping about in their leather boots and brandishing walking sticks like weapons. They’re all come to gaze upon the Matterhorn, that jagged tooth of rock piercing the heavens, and I confess, it does possess a certain…grim grandeur. But one does weary, after a time, of hearing endless pronouncements on its majesty, especially when delivered by gentlemen whose grasp of the Alps extends only as far as their guidebooks.

The streets, or rather, the pathways that masquerade as streets, are innocent of the vulgar presence of automobiles. Electrically-powered contraptions, resembling overgrown golf carts, buzz hither and yon, carrying luggage and ladies with excessively coiffed hair. These silent steeds are a curious spectacle, indeed. One almost yearns for the honest racket of a good, old-fashioned horse-drawn carriage, just to break the eerie quiet that descends upon the place after the sun dips behind the mountains. The hotels are grand, of course, boasting balconies with views that would make a painter weep with envy. Inside, however, one finds the usual assortment of gilded mirrors, overstuffed chairs, and menus written in languages that would stump a philologist. The food? Well, let us just say it is… hearty. One suspects the chefs believe that altitude necessitates the consumption of dishes so rich they could bankrupt a Rothschild. All in all, Zermatt is a grand place, a spectacle of nature and human artifice, but a body can’t help but wonder if a bit of quiet solitude, perhaps in a less celebrated corner of the world, wouldn’t be preferable to the endless chorus of “oohs” and “aahs” emanating from those perpetually upward-gazing tourists. And, of course, to escape the electrically-powered golf carts, ever threatening to run one down in the blink of an eye.
