Now, as to Galilee, bless your heart if you think you know the place from them Sunday school pamphlets with their prissy pictures of peaceful shepherds and tidy little olive groves. Galilee ain't that. Lord, no. It's a landscape made for hardscrabble living and breeding rebels, which it did in prodigious fashion. The Sea of Galilee, they call it, though “puddle” might be nearer the mark to my Mississippi eyes. It's pleasant enough, mind you, shimmering under that blasted sun like a penny tossed into a cistern. But don't be fooled by the pretty facade. Those waters, they've seen more than just fish flopping. More likely seen Romans tossing bodies overboard or a particularly zealous prophet calming a storm with a wave of his hand – depends on which yarn you choose to believe, and Galilee breeds tall tales like a stagnant pond breeds mosquitoes.

The towns along the shore, Capernaum, Bethsaida, they're all just dusty, fly-ridden collections of houses clinging to the hillside like ticks on a stray dog. Folks there are stubborn, suspicious, and perpetually short on patience, traits that I wager spring from scratching a living out of land that mostly wants to grow rocks. I heard tell that one could still find a fish there, of course, but after seeing the local methods of catching them, I'd rather dine on locusts. Speaking of dining, the food is...an experience, let's say. Olives, bread tougher than a boot sole, and enough garlic to ward off every vampire from Transylvania to Jericho.

But the funny thing is, despite all the dust and flies and questionable cuisine, there's a certain… magnetism about Galilee. Maybe it's the ghosts of all those prophets and madmen who wandered those hills, or maybe it's just the relief of finally finding a patch of shade, but something about the place sticks to you, like a stubborn burr on your pant leg. You might leave cursing the heat and the flies, but you'll find yourself thinking about it later, wondering what stories those sun-baked stones could tell if they only had a tongue. And that, I suspect, is the true magic of Galilee, a magic that even I, a hardened traveler cynical enough to skin a flea for its hide, cannot entirely deny.
