Now, in these far-flung corners of the world, you'll stumble upon customs that might tickle your fancy or furrow your brow, depending on your disposition, mind you. Take this notion of "bucksheesh," for example. It’s a rather slippery fish, this bucksheesh, and just try to get a hold of it, you'll find it as elusive as a politician's promise. Why, it’s neither quite a bribe nor a gift, but a curious concoction of both, seasoned with expectation and a dash of veiled threat. Imagine, if you will, a fellow burdened by officialdom, desiring a document stamped, a permit granted, or even merely to have the dust swept off his doorstep. He presents a sum, discreetly slipped, of course, like a sly whisper into the ear of the appointed official. This ain’t your everyday transaction, mind you, for it greases the wheels of bureaucracy with a peculiar kind of lubricant, one that oils not so much efficiency, but the pocket of the operative, and, if rumor holds, perhaps his superior as well.

It’s understood, though seldom spoken aloud. Think of it as a delicate dance, a silent conversation between palms, where value is assessed not by law, but by the urgency of the need and the sharpness of the official's gaze. You might find it irksome, this bucksheesh, a tax on patience and a levy on hope. And it may leave a bit of a sour taste in your mouth, reminding you of less scrupulous dealings back home, dressed up with fancier words, of course. But then again, who are we to judge the local palate? After all, one man's bribe is another man's tip, and what's more, a traveler is wise to learn the ways of the land, or he’ll find himself stuck in the mire of red tape with all the other poor suckers who believe in the power of official forms. So next time you find yourself entangled in some Eastern puzzle, remember bucksheesh; it could be the key that unlocks the door. Though I would hasten to add, that if it ain't the key, you are likely to be fleeced like a prize-winning sheep. It depends on the gentleman, and what he had for breakfast. 
