Now, pard, about this here pard, or partner, as some fancy-pants folks might call ‘em. Seems like a simple enough proposition, don't it? You hitch your wagon to another fella, pull in the same direction, divvy up the dust, and maybe, just maybe, end up richer 'n Croesus. But let me tell you, pardnerships are like them sourdough biscuits your Aunt Tilly makes: look right pretty on the outside, but bite into one and you might find a lump of alkali that’ll curl your whiskers.

I’ve seen more partnerships crumble faster than a dry gulch in a flash flood. One fella I knew, had a partner so superstitious, he wouldn't spit on a black cat on Friday the 13th less’n the moon was also in Capricorn. Drove the other fella clean loco, near enough to chewing on his own boots. Then there was old Jebediah, bless his cotton socks, partnered up with a feller who claimed to be a diviner of silver. Spent six months digging holes that looked like the devil's bowling alley, found nothin' but gophers and disappointment. Jebediah, bless him, finally saw the silver, alright, but it was the glint of madness in his partner’s eye. 

The thing is, a pard is like a wife, only you don't get to pick her dress. You gotta live with their quirks, their snorin', their penchant for singin' off-key while panning for gold. And you gotta trust 'em, which, in this here territory, is akin to trustin' a rattlesnake not to bite. I reckon the secret to a successful partnership is findin' a fella who's got half the brains and twice the grit, and who ain't afraid to tell you you’re being a confounded fool when you're headin' for disaster. 'Cause let me tell you, disaster, in this here life, is just around the bend, waitin' to pounce like a mountain lion on a slow-footed jackrabbit. And sometimes, just sometimes, that pard is the only thing standin’ between you and a dirt nap. But don't go thinkin' it's all sunshine and roses, 'cause more often than not, it's just hard work, shared beans, and the occasional cussin' match under the starry Nevada sky.
