Now, a sepulchre, you say? Fine word, that. Conjures up images of dampness, and dust, and maybe a spider or two dangling where no spider ought to be. Back in my day, folks took their burying serious. No scattering ashes on the golf course, or, Heaven forbid, launched into space, oh no. We're talking stone boxes, these sepulchres. Elaborate affairs, some of 'em, fit for a king – though usually occupied by someone slightly less impressive, like a prosperous hog farmer or a particularly long-winded preacher. You could tell a lot about a fellow by his sepulchre, you could. A plain one meant he was either humble or stingy, or both, probably. A fancy one? Well, that fellow likely spent his life bragging about his rheumatism and swindling widows, and thought he could buy his way into the afterlife with a bit of marble and some fancy carvings.

Of course, the real comedy started when they tried to seal these things up. You’d think after centuries of building and tinkering, somebody would've figured out how to keep the rain out, not to mention the occasional enterprising grave robber. But no sir. The ancient Egyptians, bless their cotton socks, were probably the closest to getting it right, though I'm sure they had their share of leaky pyramids. Us modern folk, well, we tended to rely on a big, heavy stone and a prayer. Which, I always suspected, was a bit short-sighted. Give it a few years, and you’d find moss growing on the thing, weeds poking out of the cracks, and the occasional badger trying to set up housekeeping inside. All in all, a right fine mess. And the epitaphs! Don't even get me started on the epitaphs. Always full of flowery language and blatant exaggerations. "A devoted husband," it’d say, when everyone knew he spent more time at the saloon than at home. “A generous benefactor," when he hadn't given a dime to charity in his life. Human nature, I reckon. Even in death, we can't resist a bit of puffery. It's a sepulchre all right, built to honor the dead, and simultaneously, expose the vanities of the living.
