Now, about this portier business. I reckon it’s one of those contraptions born out of pure human fancy, and a fancy not always draped in good sense, mind you. Eve, bless her heart, she saw a need for it, or rather, she felt a draft and declared it a need. Said the wind waltzed right in through the doorframe, bold as brass, and disturbed her peaceful contemplation of the sunset. Well, I told her, sunsets ain’t meant for peaceful contemplation, they're meant for marveling at nature's gaudy displays of color. But did she listen? Not a whit.

So, she fashioned a sort of blanket, a right heavy one I might add, out of the wool from that silly sheep we got tangled up with last Tuesday, (the one that thought it was a philosopher), and strung it across the door. Said it was to keep the draft at bay. Now, I’m no engineer, but it seemed to me that the wind, being the sly devil it is, would find a way around that thing. And wouldn't you know it, it did. Instead of a whistling gale, we now have a muted whooshing sound as the air tries to force its way through the woolly barrier, like a disappointed ghost trying to get in for dinner.

The trouble is, the darn thing swings back and forth every time somebody goes through, like a judgey pendulum counting your sins. And it collects dust. Dust like you wouldn’t believe, clinging to those wool fibers like a miser to his gold. I swear, I saw a dust bunny clinging on for dear life this morning. And Eve, she calls it “elegant”. Elegant! It’s about as elegant as a hog in a parlor. But try telling her that. No sir, she's convinced it's the pinnacle of civilized living. At least it makes for a good back scratcher when she is feeling frisky. I suppose if she's happy, I'm happy, even if it means sharing our domicile with this dusty, swinging, woolly oddity she calls a portier. Besides, it keeps the drafts down a tad, and sometimes, just sometimes, it does look rather impressive when the sunset backlights it just so. Even a hog in a parlor can have its moments, I suppose.
