Now, a sepulchre, you say. Sounds like a right proper sneeze caught halfway through a dictionary, doesn’t it? But let's not judge a word by its looks, lest we start mistaking a mule for a thoroughbred. It’s essentially a fancy grave, mind you, a step up from your garden-variety hole in the ground marked with a rock that reads "Here Lies Bessie, Kicked by a Cow." No, sir, a sepulchre is where you stash the folks who’ve done well enough in life to warrant more than just a dirt nap. Think of it as the penthouse suite in the afterlife neighborhood, a stone mansion built six feet under.

I reckon the Egyptians, bless their mummy-wrappin' hearts, practically invented the thing. Those pyramids weren’t exactly built for Sunday picnics, were they? Though, I’ll grant you, they’d make a dandy spot for a game of hide-and-seek, provided you don’t mind running into a pharaoh or two. Now, the purpose, besides letting everyone know just how important old Ramses was, is a bit of a head-scratcher. They filled ‘em up with gold and jewels and whatnot, apparently figuring they could take it with them. Which strikes me as a tad optimistic, unless St. Peter’s running a pawn shop these days. I always figured all that gold was just an excuse to hire a bunch of folks to lug heavy stuff around. Good for the economy, I suppose, though a darn sight inconvenient for the fellows who ended up getting sealed inside with the king. Can you imagine the small talk? "Lovely sarcophagus, Ramses. You always did have good taste."

And don’t even get me started on the curses. Seems like every sepulchre worth its salt comes with a good, solid curse. You know, the kind that promises boils, pestilence, and an unending supply of telemarketers calling at dinnertime. Always seemed a bit heavy-handed to me. You'd think a simple "Keep out, or you’ll stub your toe" would suffice. But no, they gotta go and threaten to unleash the wrath of a forgotten god. Makes a fella wonder if they were compensating for something. Anyway, a sepulchre, it's a fancy tomb. A place to put the dead folks who deserve something a bit more elaborate than a simple pine box. Though, between you and me, I'd rather be remembered for a good story than a fancy mausoleum. A good story will outlive stone any day.
