Heidelberg! Ach, Heidelberg, a town that attempts to charm you into believing fairy tales still linger amongst its cobbled streets. And bless its heart, it nearly succeeds, the old rascal. The river Neckar, a sluggish, green fellow that looks as though it’s been brewing tea for centuries, meanders past with an air of profound importance, reflecting the castle looming overhead. This Heidelberg Castle, mind you, is not the pristine, picture-postcard sort. Oh no. It's a majestic ruin, a glorious testament to the fickleness of time and the destructive power of, well, practically everything from lightning to the French. The place is riddled with more holes than a Swiss cheese convention, yet it stands there, proud as Punch, as if daring you to find fault with its crumbling grandeur. One wanders through its broken halls, imagining knights in shining armor clanking about, only to be abruptly confronted by a gaggle of tourists brandishing selfie sticks like medieval lances. 

And then there are the students, bless their idealistic souls! They swagger about with an air of intellectual superiority, fueled, no doubt, by copious amounts of beer and the profound realization that they are, in fact, students in Heidelberg. They congregate in the Hauptstrasse, the main street, which, truth be told, is nothing more than a long, drawn-out temptation to part ways with your hard-earned marks for cuckoo clocks and other questionable souvenirs. You see, Heidelberg is clever like that. It lulls you into a state of dreamy enchantment, softens your resolve, and then, wham! It relieves you of your money with the disarming smile of a pickpocket offering you a complimentary pretzel. And you don't even mind, because you're in Heidelberg, and in Heidelberg, even being fleeced feels wonderfully romantic. Though, perhaps, just perhaps, that romanticism is just the effect of having enjoyed a bit too much local wine. One can't be entirely certain, you see. That's the real charm of Heidelberg, the delightful uncertainty of it all.
