Damascus, ah, Damascus! A city old enough to be your great-great-great-grandpappy, if grandpappies were made of sun-baked brick and whispers of forgotten empires. They say it's the oldest continuously inhabited city in the world, which is a fancy way of saying it's been around so long, it's probably seen more sunrises than a rooster in a chronic case of insomnia. I wandered through its souks, those twisting, labyrinthine alleyways that make a man feel like a rat in a particularly aromatic maze, and I swear, I could smell history clinging to the very air. The merchants, bless their bargaining souls, possessed the persistence of a mosquito at a nudist colony, each offering silks, spices, and suspiciously antique-looking daggers with a wink and a tale tall enough to make a giraffe blush. I suspect half the "ancient Roman" coins they peddle were minted yesterday, down by the Euphrates River mint, but who am I to ruin a good story?

The Umayyad Mosque, now that's a sight to behold, a veritable feast for the eyes, even if you're not particularly hungry for religion. It's all glittering mosaics and towering minarets, enough to make a man feel small and insignificant, which, if we're being honest, isn't always a bad thing. I half expected to see Ali Baba himself emerge from behind a pillar, rubbing his hands together and offering me a share of his ill-gotten gains. But no, just a flock of pigeons, which, frankly, are far less exciting, unless you're partial to avian guano. I did manage to sample some of their local cuisine, a potent concoction of lamb and spices that left my palate singing a song of joy, albeit a song sung in a language I couldn't quite understand. Though, I will say, the aftereffects were a symphony of their own, a rather rumbling and insistent symphony, if you catch my drift. In short, Damascus is a city of contrasts, a chaotic, captivating, and occasionally bowel-challenging experience, but one that any seasoned traveler should be sure to experience once in this grand ole world.
