Heidelberg, ah, Heidelberg! It's a town seemingly constructed for the express purpose of enchanting impressionable American tourists, and dash it all, if it doesn't succeed admirably. One might even suspect the very bricks and cobblestones conspire to produce a sort of picturesque spell. They certainly do a fair job of tripping up respectable ladies in sensible shoes, I noted, watching Mrs. Hogsbottom nearly take a tumble whilst attempting to admire the Schloss from a particularly precarious vantage point. The Schloss itself! A grand old ruin, it is, a testament to mankind's persistent habit of building things, then promptly demolishing them. One imagines the Elector Palatine, poor chap, sitting up there amidst the crumbling battlements, sighing dramatically over the sheer inconvenience of repeated French invasions. He must have longed for a nice quiet suburb and a reliable mail service, I daresay. But no, he had to have a castle, didn't he? And now look at the mess.

Down below, in the town, the students, bless their callow hearts, go about their business with an air of studied nonchalance, as if residing in a postcard were the most ordinary thing in the world. They drink their beer in the Kneipen, they sing their rowdy songs, and they scribble profound thoughts in notebooks probably purchased at that very charming souvenir shop just around the corner. One fancies they're all secretly posing for some unseen artist, determined to embody the very essence of 'German Student Life'. The Neckar, of course, meanders obligingly through the scene, all shimmering and serene, reflecting the castle, the bridges, and the general air of historical consequence. One can almost hear it whispering tales of duels, of poetry, and of countless stolen kisses under the shadow of that confounded Schloss. Indeed, Heidelberg is a most agreeable illusion, a confection of sentiment and scenery that one absorbs with a sigh of perfect contentment, even while knowing that, like all illusions, it is probably based on a carefully constructed lie. But a pleasant lie, mind you. A very pleasant lie indeed.
