The Neckar! A river, they call it, though some days it seems more a leisurely creek, dawdling through the landscape like a portly burgher contemplating his next schnitzel. I’ve seen it swollen fit to burst its banks, threatening to baptize the cobblestone streets with a murky kiss, and other times, so placid and demure you could practically walk across on the backs of overfed swans. Honestly, the creature's behavior seems predicated on the amount of rainfall and the temper of the Black Forest, which, as far as I can tell, is perpetually displeased about something. But, despite its mood swings, this Neckar has a charm about it, a lazy elegance that somehow manages to tolerate the towns it embraces like a fussy aunt putting up with unruly nieces.

There are these castles, see, perched on the bluffs like arrogant old coots, each determined to out-glower the other with its decaying splendor. Heidelberg is the worst of the lot, the biggest, the showiest, its ruins proclaiming louder than any town crier that it was once something quite grand. And then you have the students, God bless 'em, or perhaps curse 'em, depending on the hour. They float on the Neckar in anything that resembles a raft, singing songs that are more likely to offend the ears of the swans than entertain the tourists. One can’t help but wonder if they're actually studying at the university, or simply perfecting the art of public inebriation.

Along the banks, vineyards climb the hills like eager supplicants, hoping to catch every drop of sunlight to concoct a wine that will, perhaps, one day be considered tolerable. The wine, you understand, is a local point of pride, though, in my humble opinion, it tastes suspiciously like something wrung out of a damp dishcloth. But, one mustn’t tell the locals that. They take their wine with the sort of earnest devotion usually reserved for religious artifacts. And finally, there’s the sheer abundance of bridges. It seems the Neckar attracts bridges the way a rotting apple attracts flies. Each one boasts of engineering prowess and architectural significance, although, to my uneducated eye, they all look remarkably similar. Just different ways to get to the other side, which, more often than not, looks remarkably similar to this side. But that, my friends, is the Neckar: full of itself, charmingly flawed, and undeniably, endearingly, German.
