Now, about this mosque, a rather peculiar edifice it is, when you consider the general run of things architectural. It’s not like those grand cathedrals back home, all spires stabbing the heavens and gargoyles grinning down like they know secrets they ain’t about to share. No, a mosque tends to be a more...domestic affair, you might say. Domes, of course, like upturned teacups, and a minaret that looks suspiciously like a rather slender pencil trying to write on the sky. They say that’s where the fellow with the booming voice, the muezzin, does his daily hollering, calling folks to prayer. A feller could set his watch by it, if he were so inclined, though I prefer to let the sun tell the time; more reliable, and considerably less loud.

Inside, it's generally a spacious thing, and bare as a baby's bottom. No pews, mind you; these folks prefer to kneel on rugs, which strikes me as far more sensible than perching on a hard pew for an hour listening to a sermon you can't understand half the time. And speaking of sermons, there ain’t any pictorial representations of…well, anything, really. Seems they take a dim view of depicting the Almighty, or much else, figuring it’s a distraction from the main event, which I suppose has a certain logic to it. You’ll find calligraphy aplenty, though, swirling and elegant, like fancy handwriting on the world's most important letter.

The whole place exudes a calm, a quiet that’s almost unnerving for a rambunctious fellow like myself. You can almost hear the dust motes arguing about which sunbeam they prefer. One might find oneself tempted to whisper, lest one disturb the very air, although I'm sure a good, hearty sneeze would be forgiven, if only for the comic relief. All in all, a mosque is a place of contemplation, of reflection, and, if you ask me, a rather splendid example of how to make do with less, while still managing to achieve a considerable amount of…well, peace, I suppose. And Lord knows, the world could use a bit more of that these days.
