Heidelberg! Ach, Heidelberg, a town seemingly ripped from the pages of a dusty fairytale, and likely written by some overly romantic goose quill-pusher, no doubt drunk on Rhine wine and the sheer audacity of the landscape. It clings to the hills like a lovesick vine, all cobbled streets and half-timbered houses tilting at improbable angles, as if perpetually surprised by their own existence. The Neckar River, a rather modest stream considering the fuss everyone makes about it, meanders past with a quiet air of self-importance, like a dowager aunt who's seen better days but still expects a curtsy. And the castle! Lord, the castle! A magnificent ruin, it is, looking for all the world like a giant had taken a bite out of it, then, bored, tossed the rest aside. I suppose some find the crumbling grandeur romantic, but to me, it looks like a rather expensive lesson in poor architectural decisions and the futility of earthly ambition. One can imagine the lords and ladies of yore, strutting about with their puffed-up chests and ridiculous wigs, quite certain they'd built something that would last forever. Now look at it! A picturesque pile of rubble, mostly occupied by pigeons and tourists wielding selfie sticks like weapons. The town itself, though charming in its way, is entirely given over to the latter, and quite frankly, I wouldn't be surprised if the local currency was now American dollars. Every other shop seems to sell cuckoo clocks or beer steins, both items of questionable necessity, yet embraced with an enthusiasm that borders on hysteria. And the students! Ah, the students, parading about in their silly caps and brightly colored ribbons, drinking beer and singing songs that sound suspiciously like yodeling. They’re having the time of their lives, of course, blissfully unaware that in a few short years, they’ll be stuck behind desks, filling out spreadsheets and regretting every stein of beer they ever hoisted. Still, one can't fault them for enjoying the moment, for Heidelberg, despite its flaws and its fervent devotion to the tourist trade, has a certain undeniable charm, a way of insinuating itself into your affections like a persistent, slightly annoying, but ultimately endearing old friend.
