Well, I find myself perched in this Chamonix, a village seemingly glued to the very beard of Mont Blanc itself. One might think, judging by the postcards and the breathless prose in the travel brochures, that this is a place of unblemished majesty and spiritual uplift. And, to be fair, the mountain *is* quite tall. Imposingly so, I must concede. It glowers down upon us mere mortals with the air of a particularly dyspeptic deity, draped in snow like a king in a slightly grubby ermine robe.

The air, they say, is invigorating. Perhaps. I find it mostly thin, and suspiciously similar to the air one finds elsewhere, only with a faint undertone of pine needles and ambition. For everyone here, you see, is possessed of a fierce desire to climb, ski, or otherwise hurl themselves about with reckless abandon in the general direction of peril. One encounters them in the streets, these intrepid souls, clad in brightly colored fabrics that resemble nothing so much as a flock of escaped parrots. They stride with a determined glint in their eye, muttering about crampons and crevasses as if these were commonplace items one finds on a shopping list next to eggs and milk.

The shops, naturally, cater to this peculiar obsession. One can purchase ropes stronger than the bonds of matrimony, axes sharp enough to split philosophical hairs, and boots that appear capable of withstanding the very fires of perdition. I, myself, succumbed to the allure and purchased a small, folding spork, figuring it might prove useful should I find myself stranded in a particularly well-stocked picnic basket on a moderately inclined hill.

But, despite the general air of frenetic activity and the lurking presence of that colossal mountain, there is a certain charm to this place. A rough-hewn, unpretentious sort of charm, like a blacksmith who can also play the lute. The locals, weathered and laconic, possess a dry humor that I find quite appealing. And the coffee, ah, the coffee! Strong enough to raise the dead, or at least get them thinking about higher altitudes. One can sit at a café, watch the parade of mountain goats (human variety, of course) and ponder the peculiar human inclination to risk life and limb for the sake of bragging rights and a stunning view. It’s all quite absurd, really. And, therefore, utterly delightful.
