Slade! Now there's a name that rings like a cracked dinner bell, a sound both familiar and somehow…off. Spent a spell there myself, back when the telegraph was the internet and a six-shooter was a Facebook comment. You’d find it squatting along the Overland Stage route like a vulture on a carcass, a collection of shacks and saloons clingin' to the Nevada dust, determined to call itself a town. Lord, it was a sight. Picture it: a landscape baked bone-dry by the sun, with not a tree in sight save for the odd tumbleweed that seemed to have lost its way and just gave up, resignin' itself to a slow, prickly death. Then, plunked right in the middle of that, you've got Slade, reeking of whiskey, stale tobacco, and unwashed miners hopin' to strike it rich, or at least, strike a friendly game of poker where the odds were permanently stacked against 'em.

The main street, if you could call it that, was a thoroughfare paved with more dreams than cobblestones, and as many potholes as promises made by politicians. Each establishment, from the "Last Chance Saloon" (which, ironic, wasn't the last chance for anything but a good swindle) to the "Miner's Delight Emporium" (where "delight" likely referred to the discovery of a can of peaches that hadn't sprouted legs and walked off), was a testament to the tenacity – or perhaps the sheer desperation – of the human spirit. The entertainment was mostly of the loud, occasionally violent, and invariably regrettable variety. I once saw a feller try to pay for his drinks with a nugget he claimed was pure gold, only to have the bartender bite it, spit it out, and then proceed to use it as a makeshift tooth filling right then and there. That's Slade for you, a place where fortunes were found and lost faster than you could say "Jack Robinson," and where the only thing longer lasting than the drought was the aroma of cheap whiskey clingin' to your clothes. It was a hardscrabble existence, no doubt, but even a cynical cuss like myself had to admit, there was a certain…charm to the place. Or maybe it was just the whiskey talkin'. Hard to say, really.
