Well, I reckon I’ve seen sights enough in my rambling days to fill a whole library with yarns, and some of the most peculiar have been 'mongst them Mormons out there in Utah. Went through Salt Lake City, I did, and a more industrious, sober, and, dare I say, *contented* looking bunch of people I’ve rarely clapped eyes on. Now, I ain’t about to jump on the Polygamy bandwagon, mind you. One wife is a burden enough for any sensible man, and I can’t imagine the diplomacy required when you’re juggling a whole stable of ‘em. Still, you gotta admire the sheer logistical genius of Brigham Young – keepin’ all those families fed, clothed, and singin’ from the same hymn sheet. He had more wives than a blue jay has feathers, seems like.

They’re an odd mix, those Mormons. Got the starry-eyed zealots, the honest-to-goodness farmers wrestlin’ a living from that dusty land, and the fellas lookin’ for a place to belong, I suppose. They work like beavers on a dam, makin’ that desert bloom roses, or whatever the Utah equivalent of a rose is. Sagebrush, maybe? And that Tabernacle! Lordy, what a contraption! Looks like a giant overturned soup bowl, but the acoustics are somethin' fierce. Heard a feller drop a pin on the far side, and it sounded like a cannon blast.

They’re mighty proud of their faith, that’s for sure. You’d think they invented scripture, the way they talk about it. But then again, ever notice how every religion thinks they’ve got the only key to the pearly gates? Makes a body wonder if St. Peter ain't just got a whole ring of 'em, jangling around, tryin' to find the right one. Anyway, the Mormons, they’re stickin’ to their story, buildin' temples, and multiplyin’ like rabbits. Say what you will about ‘em, they ain't shy about puttin' down roots. I suspect they'll be there long after most of us are six feet under, still preachin' about golden plates and angels. And who knows, maybe they're on to somethin'. Stranger things have happened, haven't they? Saw a feller once claim he could turn lead into gold, out in Nevada. That turned out to be a hogwash, but then again, turning a desert into a city ain't too shabby a trick either, now is it?
