Genoa, ah, that venerable old sea dog of a city! They’ve perched her there, on the Ligurian coast, like a grizzled captain observing his fleet, all crooked lanes and towering houses jostling for a view of the briny deep. One might imagine Neptune himself chuckling at the audacity of these Genoese, clinging to the hillside with such fervent determination. It’s a place where history seems to have simply piled itself up, layer upon layer, like the laundry of a sailor who’s been at sea for far too long. You’ll find grand palaces, all marble and pomp, cheek by jowl with humble trattorias where the aroma of pesto hangs thicker than the sea mist. And the pesto, good heavens, the pesto! It’s enough to make a man forget all his worries, even the ones involving questionable investments in South American railroads. The Genoese, they’re a sharp bunch, you see. They’ve been haggling and trading since before Columbus sailed the ocean blue (and speaking of Columbus, they claim him as their own, naturally, though half a dozen other towns are likely making similar claims).

The city fairly vibrates with the murmur of a thousand deals being struck at once. Even the cats that prowl the narrow alleyways seem to possess a certain shrewdness in their eyes, as if contemplating the purchase of a prime piece of real estate in the Piazza De Ferrari. And the port! Ah, that’s a sight for sore eyes. A teeming mass of ships, from humble fishing boats to hulking cargo vessels, all vying for space like unruly children at a school picnic. The air is thick with the scent of salt, diesel, and the faint whiff of intrigue – one imagines fortunes being won and lost with every passing tide. One can’t help but feel that anything is possible in Genoa, that even a landlocked Midwesterner like myself might stumble upon a lost treasure, or perhaps, more realistically, be swindled out of his last lira. But even that, I suspect, would be a story worth telling. Genoa, you see, is a city that thrives on stories, and I reckon she’ll be spinning them for centuries to come.
