Now, Carson City. I’d heard tell of it, oh, a year or two back, when the rush to Washoe kicked off and folks figured anywhere near the Comstock lode was a slice of paradise just waiting to be snatched up. Seems Carson City was meant to be the grand artery pumping supplies and whatnot into Virginia City’s gullet. Grand, I say, in theory. In practice, it’s more like a clogged vein, throbbing a little, but mostly just sitting there, dusty and disgruntled. I pulled in with the stage, naturally, expectin’ to see a proper boomtown, all grit and glitz and a touch of desperation in the air. Instead, what greeted my eyeballs was a collection of adobe shacks and wooden structures lookin' like they'd lost a fight with the desert wind. The "city" stretched out, yawnin' wide and bored, a testament to the fact that even gold fever can't cure a town of dullness.

The streets, I reckon, were paved with good intentions and a whole lotta dust. I swear, I saw tumbleweeds engaging in a high-stakes game of tag right down Main Street. And the citizens! Bless their hearts, they moved with the deliberate speed of a snail crossing the salt flats. It was a far cry from the frenzied energy I'd come to expect. The saloons, though plentiful, seemed to be populated by folks nursing their drinks and their disappointments in equal measure. I listened to a fella in a flannel shirt complain about the price of lumber for a good half hour. Lumber, mind you, not gold, not silver, but lumber!

I reckon there's a sort of quiet charm to it all, if you're the type who likes quiet, that is. Me? I prefer my towns with a bit more... *oomph*. Carson City, seemed more likely to whisper a bedtime story than ignite a revolution. I did hear the governor, a stout fella with a handlebar mustache that could rival a handlebar on a bicycle, was trying to make the place a real capitol. Bless his heart, he's got a mountain to climb. If Carson City is going to rise to greatness, it needs a whole lot more than just a fancy title. It needs some genuine excitement, some ambition, and maybe, just maybe, a good solid dose of that wild, unvarnished enthusiasm that can turn a desolate patch of dirt into a booming metropolis. But until then, I'll be movin' along, lookin' for a place where the streets are paved with ambition, not just dust.
