Chamonix, they call it. A village nestled in the very bosom of the Alps, or perhaps more accurately, crushed beneath them like a violet under a portly gentleman’s boot. One arrives expecting, naturally, to be dwarfed by the scenery, and dwarfed one certainly is. Mountains so high, they appear to be perpetually engaged in a conversation with the Almighty, a conversation, I might add, that seems to consist entirely of haughty pronouncements and thunderous echoes. And the glaciers! Great rivers of ice, crawling down the mountainside with the speed and grace of a particularly stubborn snail. One almost expects to see a “Caution: Glaciers Crossing” sign erected alongside the road, although I suspect even the glaciers would scoff at the impertinence of such a suggestion.

The inhabitants, bless their ambitious little souls, have attempted to improve upon nature’s design. They’ve built chalets, charming little affairs that look suspiciously like gingerbread houses abandoned by Hansel and Gretel. And they’ve strung wires up the mountains, carrying those adventurous souls who fancy a closer acquaintance with the heavens. I observed them, these tiny figures suspended between earth and sky, looking for all the world like raisins caught in a particularly sticky web. One wonders if they ever ponder the insignificance of their endeavors in the face of such monumental grandeur. Perhaps not. Perhaps they are too busy clinging for dear life and contemplating the cost of the hot chocolate at the summit.

The air, I must concede, is invigorating, unless, of course, one is attempting to navigate the aforementioned glaciers, in which case, it is merely terrifying. One breathes deeply, convinced one is inhaling the very essence of purity, until, that is, one is overtaken by a pack of Lycra-clad cyclists, exhaling something that smells suspiciously like petroleum and ambition. And the tourists! A veritable menagerie of nationalities, all united by a shared desire to capture the perfect photograph and to complain about the price of fondue. One feels a certain kinship with them, these temporary residents, all playing their part in the great Chamonix spectacle, a spectacle as grand and as fleeting as a particularly impressive avalanche.
