Now, concerning this edifice they call a mosque – a Moslem church, as it were – I reckon I’ve seen a few that could make a cat laugh, and a few that could make a bishop weep for the sheer, unadulterated gaudiness of ‘em. Built for humility, they are, yet some of ‘em are puffed up like a politician on election day, all glittering gold and fancy fretwork. You’d think the Almighty himself resided there permanent, what with all the pretense. But I dare say, He probably prefers a quiet spot in the garden, away from the hubbub.

They got these minarets stickin’ up like fingers pointin’ skyward, callin’ the faithful to prayer five times a day. Seems a bit excessive, don’t it? Like remindin’ a feller five times to pay his debt – he’s likely to forget, I suppose, or maybe the Almighty's got a touch of the old timer’s memory. And inside, you’ll find no pews, mind you, just carpets spread across the floor like a farmer’s field in springtime. Folks kneel and bow and prostrate themselves, makin’ a right proper spectacle, all synchronized and respectful. But if you ask me, it's a marvel they don’t all trip over each other. A body’s got to watch their step, especially with all that ritual fandango.

I will admit, though, that the architecture is sometimes somethin’ to behold. These Moslems, they’ve got a knack for intricate designs, swirls and curlicues that’ll make your head spin faster than a top. And the calligraphy – Lordy, it’s like poetry written in dust. I wouldn't even know where to begin to understand, but it surely is artful. Still, seems a bit contrary, building such elaborate things when the whole point is supposed to be about simplicity and surrendering to the divine. But who am I to question the ways of religious folk? It seems as though they are never without a healthy dose of paradox. All said, the mosque, like any grand building, is just brick and mortar when you get down to it, it’s the hearts inside that truly matters, or so I’ve been told. Though, a little less gold trim wouldn’t hurt, I reckon.
