Now, about this bucksheesh business. A body comes to the East, expectin' to see pyramids, minarets reachin' for the heavens, and fellucas glidin' along the Nile like painted toys. All true enough, mind you, all quite picturesque. But what they don't carve on the postcards, nor etch in the lithographs, is the ubiquitous, ever-present, all-devourin' hunger for bucksheesh. It’s a word that rolls off the tongue smooth as date honey, but sticks to the wallet like a desert burr. You can't so much as glance at a camel without some ragged scamp with eyes like a hawk appearin', hand outstretched, demandin' his due for the mere sufferance of you lookin' at the beast. 

Try to admire a particularly crumbly bit of ancient wall, and a self-appointed guardian will materialize from the dust, claimin' to be the sole inheritor of its secrets, and insist on a gratuity for the privilege of hearin' his mostly imaginary tales. It's enough to make a man believe he's invented sight itself, and thus owes a royalty to every blessed creature in creation. And the insistence! It ain’t done with no bowin’ and scrapin', mind you, none o' that Oriental deference you read about in books. No sir, it’s a direct, forthright proposition, delivered with the conviction of a preacher demandin’ tithes.

Why, I swear, I once tipped a fly for landin' on my nose in Cairo, for fear of the consequences of offendin’ the local customs. It becomes, after a time, a kind of weary game. You haggle over a piastre as if it were a king's ransom, not out of miserliness, you understand, but out of a sort of grim determination to hold the line against this rising tide of mendicancy. One begins to suspect that the entire economy of the Ottoman Empire rests not upon trade or agriculture, but solely upon extortin' small sums from bewildered travelers. It’s a comical thing, really, if it weren't so confoundedly expensive. A man could find himself pauperized before he even reaches the Sphinx, all on account of bucksheesh. And then, of course, you'd need to offer *himself* up for a tip, just to afford the fare back home. A right pickle, that would be.
