Baden, ah, Baden! A spot of earth so exquisitely situated, one might suspect the Almighty, in a fit of whimsy, decided to deposit a slice of paradise right there 'tween the Black Forest and the Rhine. The air, mind you, is as crisp as a new banknote, or perhaps a laundered one that's been starched to within an inch of its life. One breathes it in, and suddenly feels the urge to acquire a monocle and discourse learnedly on the curative properties of the waters. Waters, indeed! Talk about waters! They bubble forth, hot as Satan's breath, laden with salts and minerals that promise to cure everything from a hangnail to a misplaced continent. Why, I saw a Duchess practically hobbling one day, leaning on a gilded cane and looking remarkably like a deceased mackerel, emerge from the baths a week later, doing the waltz with a gentleman young enough to be her grandson! One suspects, of course, a touch of collusion with the local apothecary, but one mustn't be uncharitable.

The people of Baden, too, are a study in contrasts. One finds Emperors taking the waters alongside ladies who have “seen better days," their diamonds flashing brighter than the sun on the casino roof. Gambling, you see, is the second religion there, practiced with a solemnity that would make a bishop blush. It’s a thrilling spectacle, watching fortunes rise and fall with the spin of a wheel, fortunes that have often traveled far, just to be lost in Baden. The town itself is a confection of Belle Epoque architecture and prim gardens, manicured to perfection by men who clearly take their horticultural duties far more seriously than any spiritual obligation. One wanders through the park, hearing the faint strains of a Strauss waltz carried on the breeze, and one almost forgets that there’s a world outside of Baden, a world where the cares of existence actually matter. Though, perhaps, that's the true miracle of Baden after all. A place where one can, for a brief but glorious interlude, forget about everything but the next hand of cards, or the soothing warmth of the thermal spring.
