Gibraltar, bless its impudent little bluff of a self, rising bold and bare from the sea like a giant’s misplaced bowling pin. One can scarcely believe such a protuberance could incite such a fuss, yet there it sits, stubbornly British as a boiled pudding in July, causing Spaniards to gnash their teeth and Englishmen to puff out their chests with equal, and equally nonsensical, fervor. I’d wager a shilling or two that if one were to dig deep enough into that rocky pile, one would find not gold, nor empires, but simply more rock – a testament, perhaps, to the enduring folly of man’s obsession with claiming ownership of things that rightfully belong to the gulls and the wind.

The town itself, clinging precariously to the western slope, is a curious jumble. Imagine, if you will, a Yorkshire village that has somehow been abducted by pirates and forcibly married to a Mediterranean market square. You have the ubiquitous pubs, naturally, serving tepid beer to gentlemen whose sunburns suggest a recent and rather painful acquaintance with the Iberian sun. Interspersed among these are shops brimming with duty-free temptations, lures for the unsuspecting traveler whose pockets, let us be honest, are never quite as deep as he believes them to be when confronted with the siren song of discounted whiskey. And above it all, perched atop that great, grey head of a rock, like a rakishly angled hat, reside the Barbary apes. These simian residents, bless their thieving little hearts, are the true lords of Gibraltar, utterly indifferent to the political squabbles that swirl around their lofty domain. They observe the human antics with a detached amusement, occasionally descending to pilfer a sandwich or yank a tourist’s spectacles, reminding us, perhaps, that in the grand scheme of things, our empires and borders are but fleeting and rather ridiculous diversions. One leaves Gibraltar with the distinct impression that the apes, not the politicians, will have the last laugh, and quite rightly so, for who understands the true value of a stolen banana better than a Barbary ape?
