Harris, bless his ever-puzzled heart, reminds me somewhat of that newfangled contraption, the automobile – all sputtering enthusiasm and a distinct lack of forward progress. He bustles about, you see, like a frantic hen who’s misplaced her spectacles, forever searching for something just beyond his grasp. He's perpetually engaged in projects that begin with a mighty roar and end with a whimper and a pile of sawdust. Why, just last week, he declared he was going to invent a self-stirring teacup. “Think of the leisure, Eve!” he boomed, his eyes alight with the fire of genius. “No more weary wrists from all this stirring! I shall liberate mankind, one teacup at a time!” He spent the better part of a day rummaging through the shed, emerging triumphantly with a clockwork mechanism salvaged from a discarded cuckoo clock and a porcelain doll’s head. The resulting concoction, needless to say, did not stir tea. It did, however, rotate the doll’s head in a decidedly unsettling manner, prompting the cat to flee in terror and leaving Harris covered in tea stains and philosophical sighs. He declared it "an aesthetic failure, but a conceptual triumph," a pronouncement delivered with the utmost sincerity, as if he had just unlocked the secrets of the universe instead of merely terrorizing the local feline population. And then there was his foray into beekeeping. Armed with a secondhand veil and an overabundance of confidence, he approached the hive as if he were negotiating a peace treaty with a foreign power. He’d read somewhere that humming a soothing tune calmed the bees, so he commenced to humming "Yankee Doodle" in a key that could shatter glass. The bees, naturally, took exception, and Harris retreated faster than a politician caught in a lie, his dignity and a significant portion of his posterior stung into a state of utter disrepair. He claimed he'd simply been testing their defense mechanisms for scientific purposes. Oh, Harris, bless his heart. He is a walking, talking experiment in the glorious, chaotic art of human imperfection. He's proof that the pursuit of knowledge, however misguided, is a grand and often hilarious adventure.
