So, there I was, just barely clinging to respectability after that unfortunate incident with the saloon piano and a borrowed mule, when I stumbled into Salt Lake City. Now, I’d heard tell of these Mormons, enough to fill a library the size of Brigham Young’s beard (and that, my friends, is saying something). Folks back East painted ‘em as devils, polygamists with more wives than hairs on a grizzly bear, and saints who'd swindle you out of your gold fillings before you could say "sacrament meeting."

Well, I figured anything that could raise that much fuss was worth a look-see. And what did I find? Well, houses tidier than a schoolmarm’s desk, crops flourishing in a desert that’d make a cactus weep, and children running around thicker than locusts in a Kansas summer. Polygamy? Aye, there was some of that, though discreetly done, mind you, like a gentleman hiding a losing hand in a poker game. I met Brigham himself, a fella with a gaze sharp enough to shave a man, and a way of talking that could charm a rattlesnake. He was a businessman, that one, a regular Napoleon of Zion, and I reckon he could’ve sold ice to Eskimos with that silver tongue of his.

The people, though, that’s what truly surprised me. They were hospitable, generous to a fault, and darn industrious. They worked like beavers on a caffeine binge, turning that barren landscape into a veritable Eden. Sure, they had their quirks; a bit too fond of hymns for my taste, and their theology could make a mule dizzy with confusion. But they were honest, hardworking folk, trying to build a life for themselves in a land that’d spit in your eye if you weren’t careful. After a few weeks amongst ‘em, I started to wonder if maybe the rest of the country had got them all wrong, painted them with brushes dipped in prejudice and fueled by gossip. Or maybe, just maybe, they were just plain good folk, with a peculiar way of looking at the world. Though, I still wouldn’t trust ‘em with my gold fillings. You can never be too cautious, you know.
