Higbie, now there was a specimen ripe for study, a study I should have been paid handsomely to undertake, considering the amount of unadulterated strangeness I had to sift through. He hailed, as I recall, from somewhere east where trees were as thick as fleas on a mangy dog and the folks spoke with a curious twist to their tongues, a twist that could curdle milk if you weren’t careful. He arrived in Virginia City looking, if you can imagine, like a scarecrow that had lost a fight with a particularly enthusiastic dust devil. All elbows and knees, with a face that seemed perpetually surprised at finding itself attached to his neck. 

He had notions, this Higbie, notions aplenty, most of which involved striking it rich in the silver mines. He talked a good game, he did, about ledges and lodes and the geological formations that only he, apparently, had the good sense to decipher. But talk, as the saying goes, don’t butter no parsnips, and Higbie's hands were about as calloused as a parson's conscience. I suspicioned he hadn’t so much as held a pickaxe, let alone swung one with the requisite gusto. Yet, he possessed the tenacity of a tick, clinging to his dreams of fortune with a stubbornness that bordered on the comical.

He'd spend his days leaning against the nearest saloon wall, regaling anyone within earshot with tales of his impending riches, all the while subsisting on a diet that consisted mainly of hope and the occasional free lunch. I never did see Higbie strike it rich, mind you. But he did manage to strike up a rather impressive friendship with a stray dog named “Eureka,” which, if you ask me, was about as close to silver as he ever got. He left Virginia City just as suddenly as he arrived, vanished into the Nevada wilderness, leaving behind only a lingering scent of cheap tobacco and the faint echo of his never-ending promises. I reckon he's probably out there still, somewhere, chasing shadows and talking about the fortune that's always just around the next bend. And you know what? I wouldn't put it past him to actually find it one day, the old fool. He had that kind of luck, the kind that’s so bad it eventually circles back around and becomes good.
