Now, concerning this mosque, which I observed during my ramblings in that confoundedly fascinating corner of the world, you see, it struck me as a curious edifice, indeed. A veritable confection of domes and minarets, reaching for the heavens like a pious man grasping for a loan he’s not sure he can repay. They were all covered with what I can only describe as ornamental gingerbread work, though rendered in stone instead of some sugary confection. A fellow could almost imagine taking a bite, though I suspected it would be about as satisfying as chewing on a cobblestone.

The place was bustling with activity, all sorts coming and going. There were fellows with beards that could rival a prize-winning goat, and women veiled like they were attending a grand masquerade ball where the grandest mystery was themself. I daresay, a fellow could get quite lost in the pleats of those garments! And the sounds! A cacophony of chanting, whispered prayers, and the shuffling of feet that reminded me of a flock of nervous pigeons.

The whole affair had a certain exotic charm, mind you, though I couldn't help but wonder what all the fuss was about. I mean, praying is all well and good, but couldn't they do it at home in their slippers, just as comfortably? Still, it was difficult to deny the profound seriousness with which they carried themselves. They seemed to believe in something, these folks, a notion that I've always found to be a bit of a novelty, if you'll allow me the candor. I even considered trying my hand at a bit of praying myself, though I feared I might burst out laughing mid-supplication, and that wouldn't do at all. It was like visiting a foreign circus, one moment filled with wonder, the next wondering how long until the trained bears start playing polo. I decided to be a good tourist and observe from a distance, keeping my irreverent thoughts, and my potentially explosive laughter, to myself. After all, good manners, as my dear mother used to say, are the best policy, especially when you're surrounded by folks who believe in something you might not fully comprehend.
