Ballou, now there was a specimen. A feller so green he made a June sprout look seasoned. We picked him up somewhere out East, a tenderfoot lawyer, fresh out of whatever backwater academy they churn out those quill-pushers from. Said he was coming West to make his fortune, and I reckon he did, in a roundabout sort of way. Trouble was, his fortune involved making us miserable in the process. He was forever trying to apply book-learned notions to situations that called for a good dose of common sense and a hefty stick. Remember that time we were trying to ford the Humboldt? Ballou, bless his heart, was arguing about the angle of incidence and the fluvial geomorphology, whilst the rest of us were getting waist-deep in muck and dodging sidewinders. Said he’d calculated the optimal crossing point based on a treatise he read. Treatise! I nearly drowned laughing, and might have, had I not been busy hauling the poor fool out of a quicksand pit he'd found thanks to his blasted optimal crossing point.

He was honest as the day is long, though, which, out West, is a quality rarer than a sober coyote. And persistent, bless his cotton socks. He’d argue with a grizzly bear about legal precedent if given half a chance, and probably win, just by boring it to death with Latin phrases and footnotes. Always had a book tucked under his arm, usually something impractical like “Roberts' Rules of Order” or "The Art of Rhetoric." Lord knows what he thought he’d do with rhetoric out in the desert, maybe persuade a tumbleweed to settle down. Still, you had to admire the man's dedication to being utterly out of place. He was like a china teacup in a blacksmith's shop, a misplaced comma in the grand, rambling sentence that was the Wild West. And despite all his foibles, his unwavering faith in logic, and his uncanny ability to attract misfortune, we grew fond of the fella. He was, after all, a source of endless amusement, and a reminder that even in the roughest corners of the world, there's always room for a bit of good-natured bewilderment. Even now I suspect he is in some gold-rush town somewhere lecturing the local saloon on the finer points of maritime law, blissfully unaware that the only maritime thing within a thousand miles is the dust devil shaped like a boat.
