So, I reckon I spent a spell in Salt Lake City, mostly 'cause I'd heard tell of these Mormons and their peculiar ways. Folks whispered stories back East, half of 'em scandalous and the other half downright unbelievable, like they used honey instead of money and built their houses outta petrified smiles. I figured, a feller ought to see for himself, even if it meant sidling up to folks who wore piety thicker than a buffalo hide.

What I found wasn't quite the depravity the gossips back home painted. Brigham Young, bless his soul (or maybe curse it, depending on who you ask), had these folks organized tighter than a drum. They were industrious, no denying that. Fields bloomed where deserts used to bake, and houses sprung up like mushrooms after a rain. They looked at you square in the eye and worked from sun up to sun down. But there was this air of... earnestness, you see. A bit too much certainty for a feller used to wrestling with the Almighty and finding only questions in return.

Now, about the wives. That's the part everyone back East was all a-twitter about. Well, I saw a fair number of 'em, and truth be told, they looked just as ordinary as any woman sweating over a stove, though some had a look about 'em, like they were holding back a chuckle about some inside joke only they and Brigham knew. I can’t say I learned their system, though. Seemed like a feller would need a ledger book to keep track of all the relations. Reminds me of that time I tried prospecting; figuring out who owned which claim and who was entitled to what water was a bigger head-scratcher than the gold itself. I'll allow that one wife seemed plenty to keep any man busy, if I were to have one.

They have a funny scripture, too. Full of angels, gold plates and lost tribes of Israel. I have never read a more ridiculous thing. I am not sure I can recall any more details.

All in all, the Mormons struck me as a peculiar bunch, dedicated, hardworking, and a touch too convinced of their own righteousness. Just like folks everywhere, I suppose, only with more wives and a bigger book of sermons to contend with. They are, though, in their way, interesting people.
