Brigham, that man Brigham, he was quite the spectacle out there in the desert bloom that he called Salt Lake City. A regular Moses, if Moses had a twinkle in his eye and a whole raft of wives trailing behind him like a king's baggage train. I reckon the man could preach hellfire one minute and then haggle over the price of flour the next. A practical prophet, you see, not like those starry-eyed dreamers back East. He built an empire out of alkali dust and stubborn conviction. I saw him once, standing on Temple Square, a regular Colossus, with the sun glinting off his bald head. He surveyed his handiwork - the orderly streets, the neat houses, the irrigation canals snaking across the valley – with a satisfied air. And then he spit. Just like that. Right there on the consecrated ground. It was a sight, I tell you. One part reverence, one part downright grit.

Folks whispered that he knew every blade of grass in that valley by name, and every soul in it too. Could tell you who was slacking on their tithes and who was eyeing their neighbor's wife. He had a way of looking at you, like he was reading the ledger of your soul. Might make a man nervous, if he had something to hide. But he was fair, Brigham was. Stern, sure, but fair. He wouldn't tolerate laziness or rebellion, but he'd always make sure a widow had enough to eat and a child had a roof over their head. He could be right ornery and full of bluster, mind you. Like the time he tried to reform the English language and invented a whole new alphabet. Never caught on, of course, but you had to admire the man's gumption. He even tried to tame the crickets one year, when they threatened to eat all the crops. Said he'd personally lead the charge against the little devils. Maybe he would have, too, if those seagulls hadn't shown up just in the nick of time. Divine intervention or just plain luck? Depends on who you ask in Salt Lake, but I reckon Brigham probably took credit for it either way. That was just the kind of man he was.
