Now, about these chamois creatures, you see, bless their woolly little hearts. Adam, bless his simple soul, probably never gave them a second thought. I, however, have observed them with the eye of a naturalist – and, dare I say, with a touch of motherly concern. They frolic about the Alps, these chamois, with an agility that would make a hummingbird blush. It's quite a sight, watching them leap across those precipices, seemingly defying gravity, which, as far as I can tell, is a rather tiresome inconvenience to begin with. One moment they're perched on a ledge barely wider than my hand, the next they're soaring through the air like furry, horned projectiles. One wonders what possesses them to engage in such acrobatics. Perhaps it's boredom. Perhaps they're trying to escape the nagging of their spouses, though I wouldn't presume to understand the complexities of chamois matrimony.

And their coats! A rather unbecoming shade of brown in summer, if you ask me, though I suppose fashion is a matter of perspective, especially when one is a four-legged mountain dweller. Then, come winter, they decide to dress up in gray, as if they're suddenly overcome with the need for understated elegance. It is such a very fickle thing, is nature's fashion. I've also noticed they possess a peculiar fondness for nibbling on vegetation that looks thoroughly unappetizing. I suspect it's the sort of greenery that makes your hair stand on end and your stomach churn, but then again, I have always been rather particular about my diet, preferring fruits and things that haven't been chewed on by a caterpillar first. One can't help but admire their resilience, however. They endure blizzards and avalanches and probably even endure the sort of dreadful conversations I can imagine them having with the squirrels. To survive in such a world, with such fashion sense, well, it's practically a miracle! And they're quite tasty too, at least, according to what I overheard that hunter, Cain, say to his brother. Though I'd never partake, of course.
