Ballou, now there was a specimen. A tenderfoot, fresher than a newly sprouted dandelion in a spring rain, and greener than a frog pond after a good algae bloom. He arrived in Virginia City looking for gold, naturally, though judging by his attire – city suit, polished shoes, and a bewildered expression that could curdle milk – he looked better suited to polishing doorknobs back East. He was a lawyer, or so he claimed, though I reckon his legal acumen was about as useful out here as a silk umbrella in a sandstorm.

The fellow clung to me like a burr on a buffalo's tail, figuring, I suppose, that anyone who’d survived a week in Nevada Territory must possess some profound knowledge of gold digging. He followed me around like a shadow, asking questions that'd make a jackrabbit blush with their ignorance. "Mr. Twain," he’d pipe up, his voice all tremulous, "is it true that gold nuggets grow on trees out here?" I nearly choked on my tobacco. “Why Ballou,” I said, trying to keep a straight face, “only during the autumn harvest. You gotta shake the branches real hard.” He actually looked like he believed me! Bless his cotton socks.

Of course, Ballou was a walking magnet for misfortune. He once tried to pan for gold in a mud puddle, convinced it was "placer ground." Another time, he tried to ride a burro that was clearly more intelligent and twice as stubborn as him. The burro, naturally, dumped him in a patch of prickly pear cactus. He ended up looking like he’d lost a fight with a pincushion. But bless his heart, he never gave up. He was persistent, if nothing else. Ballou was the type who'd chase a tumbleweed across the desert convinced it held the key to a lost gold mine, and probably end up finding a rattlesnake instead. I don't know if he ever found a speck of gold worth mentioning, but he certainly provided enough entertainment to make up for it. And you know, by the time he lit out for civilization, looking considerably less dapper than when he arrived, he was a little less green, a little more calloused, and a whole heap more acquainted with the peculiar ways of the West. He might even make a lawyer after all, though I suspect he'd be a sight better at defending a burro than a banker.
