Heidelberg. A town fairly dripping with antiquity, or at least the *appearance* of it, like an overripe pear about to burst its skin. One treads upon cobblestones, I'm told, laid down by generations gone, though I suspect some industrious German fellow probably replaced half of them last Tuesday for a tidy profit. The castle, bless its ruinous heart, looms over the town, a magnificent wreck testifying to the destructive power of, oh, just about everything – war, fire, gravity, you name it. The tour guides, bless their earnest souls, spin tales of princely dalliances and sieges dramatic enough to raise the dead, though I did overhear one claim the Electress Elisabeth Charlotte once personally repelled an invading horde armed only with a parasol and a withering stare. Doubtless embroidered a bit for the tourists, you see? It's a human failing to want a bit more romance, a bit more excitement than history allows.

The Neckar River, that ribbon of blue weaving through the valley, is pretty enough, I'll grant you that. Though I dare say I've seen bluer. And one can take a boat trip, which is quite pleasant, if you enjoy being jostled by other tourists and serenaded by accordions playing tunes you haven’t the faintest notion of. The students, ah, the students! A lively bunch, perpetually brimming with beer and youthful exuberance, which they seem to expend mostly on singing slightly off-key in the Hauptstrasse. One half expects them to challenge each other to duels at any moment, brandishing sausages instead of swords, of course. They also contribute immensely to the graffiti situation. I spotted one particularly insightful piece of art declaring, in bold, indecipherable script, “Franz loves sauerkraut.” Profound, wouldn’t you agree? And don’t get me started on the Heidelberg Tun! A barrel so vast it seems intended to stave off another Great Flood, rather than merely hold wine. I shudder to think of the hangover one would acquire should they attempt to drain it single-handedly. All in all, Heidelberg is charming, in its own slightly dilapidated, overly enthusiastic way. Just don’t expect historical accuracy, and for heaven's sake, avoid the accordion player.
