Zermatt, you see, is a place entirely overrun by mountains, those impudent peaks reaching for the heavens as though they hadn’t a lick of sense. Why, a body could scarcely turn around without knocking his nose against one! The villagers, hardy souls they are, seem quite accustomed to this inconvenient verticality, tramping up and down slopes with a nonchalance that would make a mountain goat blush. Now, I’ve seen sights, I have, but never have I witnessed such a brazen disregard for the law of gravity. They’ve outlawed the infernal combustion engine, you know, these Zermattians, leaving the place quiet as a church mouse, save for the jingle of sleigh bells and the occasional bellow of a tourist attempting to converse in passable German. It’s a curious silence, though, a deceptive one, for underneath that quiet hums the industry of catering to those who would throw themselves down snowy slopes with abandon. Hotels perch precariously on hillsides, resembling nothing so much as gingerbread houses abandoned by a giant with a sweet tooth, and shops overflowing with enough chocolate to sweeten the whole of Switzerland line the main street.

The Matterhorn, of course, dominates the scene, that proud and pointy thing. They say it’s impressive, and I suppose it is, if one has a particular fondness for jagged rocks covered in snow. But honestly, one mountain looks much the same as another to me, unless it’s actively trying to fall down. It looms there, indifferent to the scurrying humans at its base, a silent judge of our silly little ambitions. And the tourists, bless their hearts, flock to it like moths to a flame, snapping pictures and exclaiming over its majesty, quite oblivious to the fact that it probably couldn't care less if they were there or not. It is truly a captivating, albeit over-dramatic spectacle, this alpine charade. All in all, Zermatt is a charming place, assuming one can stomach the altitude, the prices, and the overwhelming prevalence of mountains. One might even call it idyllic, though I suspect that even paradise could benefit from a good flat stretch of land and a well-stocked saloon.
