Higbie, now there's a specimen worthy of a museum, if museums took to stuffing ambition instead of unfortunate dodos. He hailed from somewhere back East, I reckon, a place where they apparently cultivate dreams the size of watermelons on soil thinner than a politician's promise. Came West with nothing but a carpetbag full of hopes and a constitution tough enough to chew nails. He was all elbows and optimism, a human perpetual motion machine fueled by the conviction that he was just one turn of the spade away from becoming a silver king.

Lord, that man could talk a dog off a meat wagon. He'd spin yarns about claims he'd staked, veins of ore thicker than your arm, future cities rising from the dust, all with a straight face that would shame a poker player. Trouble was, Higbie's claims were usually about as rich as a pauper’s wallet, and his cities existed only in the shimmering mirage of his imagination. He was forever prospecting, forever building castles in the clouds, and just as frequently finding himself eating beans out of a rusty can.

But you couldn't fault his spirit. Even after his latest "bonanza" turned out to be nothing more than a particularly stubborn jackrabbit, he'd dust himself off, wink, and declare, "Well, boys, that just means the motherlode is hiding deeper! We just gotta dig smarter, not harder!" And then, he'd launch into another one of his elaborate schemes, usually involving some contraption he'd cobbled together out of spare wagon parts and wishful thinking, designed to extract the nonexistent riches with the ease of pulling teeth from a sleeping bear. He was a walking, talking embodiment of the gambler's fallacy, convinced that the next roll of the dice would be the one to change his fortunes. A fool, maybe, but a fool full of gusto and with a charm that could melt the ice off a prospector's beard. And in this godforsaken land of dust, sweat, and shattered dreams, a little bit of Higbie's foolish optimism was worth more than all the silver he never found.
