Now, the Coliseum, mind you, is a ruin, a right proper ruin, like a forgotten birthday cake left out in the Roman sun for a century or two. It’s colossal, of course, as anything calling itself a Coliseum jolly well *ought* to be, a crumbling mountain of travertine that likely gave more than a few marble quarries a fright. You stand there, squinting up at those archways – some standing proud, others teetering on the brink of a theatrical collapse that, naturally, never quite comes – and you can almost hear the roar of the crowd, the clash of steel, and the distinct whimper of a fellow who’s just realized he’s got a lion with a rather unsporting appetite breathing down his neck.

They say gladiators fought in there, Christians were fed to the beasts, and emperors held lavish parties that would make even a California gold miner blush with envy. Probably all true, though I wouldn't wager my last nickel on the accuracy of every tale spun by a Roman guide. These fellows, bless their hearts, have a tendency to let the imagination run a bit wild, like a runaway chariot with a drunkard at the reins. Still, fact or fancy, the Coliseum is a monument to human endeavor, or, perhaps, to the peculiar human penchant for bloodshed and spectacle. One can't help but wonder, seeing the thing so gloriously dilapidated, if future generations will look upon our own architectural marvels – say, the seven-story parking garage or the aluminum-sided suburban McMansion – with the same mixture of awe, bewilderment, and a touch of morbid curiosity. Will they, too, marvel at the ingenuity that went into designing a space perfectly suited for storing automobiles, or perhaps ponder the deeper philosophical implications of artificial turf? One can only hope so, for if history teaches us anything, it's that everything eventually crumbles, leaving behind only the stories, the echoes, and the persistent, nagging feeling that we could have probably built something a bit more useful with all that stone.
