Lucerne, bless its heart, is a place where the mountains stand around like well-fed uncles at a picnic, perpetually astonished by their own size. They loom, they glower, they reflect themselves in the lake with such self-importance it’s a wonder the water doesn’t curtsy. And that lake, now, that’s a fine piece of water if ever I saw one, though a body could drown just as dead in it as in any puddle. They call it the Vierwaldstättersee, which sounds like a sneeze in German, and I reckon that’s just about as easy to remember. It’s so blue it looks like someone’s been emptying the heavens into it, though I suspect they’ve simply dyed it for the tourists – a clever scheme, I say, if it’s true. The town itself is all gingerbread houses and clock towers, so quaint it fairly aches, like an old aunt trying to keep up with the youngsters. Cobblestones galore, too; a fellow could break an ankle just looking at them, though the horses seem to manage well enough. They trot along, those horses, pulling carriages full of gaping tourists, all pointed towards that ridiculous Lion Monument. Now, that lion… carved into the rock, dying of grief for some Swiss Guards who perished in France. Well, I say, there's plenty of grief to go around in the world, without carving it into stone. Besides, wouldn’t a plate of sausages have been a more useful tribute? Anyway, the locals, they’re all smiles and “Grüezi” this and “Grüezi” that, selling cuckoo clocks that cuckoo whether you want them to or not. I suspect they’d sell you the Matterhorn if they could figure out how to shrink it small enough to fit in your valise. It's a pleasant place, no doubt, but a body can only take so much scenery and yodeling before longing for a good old-fashioned poker game and a plate of biscuits. Though, mind you, the biscuits here are probably shaped like Edelweiss flowers and cost five francs apiece. Everything costs five francs in Lucerne, I do believe, except for the air, which they’ll likely start charging for any day now.
