Them miners, bless their dusty souls, were a breed apart, I tell you what. A feller could always spot 'em in Virginia City, even when they weren't dripping with sweat and grime. It wasn't just the way they walked, all bow-legged from straddling ore cars in them dark, damp tunnels – though that was a fair indicator. No, it was more the look in their eye, like they'd seen things down in the earth that'd make a preacher take up strong drink. Some claimed it was ghosts of dead Chinamen, others swore it was gnomes guarding the gold, but I reckon it was just the sheer, crushing weight of rock and the constant threat of a cave-in that gave 'em that thousand-yard stare.

They were a superstitious bunch, mind you. Wouldn't touch a rabbit's foot if you paid 'em, said it brought bad luck down below. Yet, they'd happily gamble away their month's wages on a game of faro, believing Lady Luck was on their side just 'cause they'd found a particularly shiny nugget that morning. Logic and mining? About as compatible as a rattlesnake and a baby. And Lord, the stories they’d tell! Each more outlandish than the last, about veins of silver so pure you could see your reflection in 'em, or about finding dinosaur bones encased in solid quartz. A feller had to take it all with a grain of salt, of course, seeing as how a little whiskey tended to get mixed into the telling, but they were entertaining enough to listen to, especially on a cold night by the fire.

Of course, they were quick to fight as they were to yarn. A cross word over a claim or a slight in the saloon could lead to a brawl faster than you could say "Jack Robinson." But they were also fiercely loyal to one another, these grizzled sons of the earth. If one was down on his luck, the others would chip in, sharing their grub and offering a bunk in their makeshift shacks. For all their faults, and Lord knows they had plenty, them miners were the backbone of this territory, scraping a living out of the ground and dreaming of the day they'd strike it rich and finally leave that dusty hole behind.
