Brigham, that singular specimen of humanity, was a sight to behold, a veritable patriarch in homespun and hard-won prosperity. He surveyed his domain, the Salt Lake Valley, like a farmer admiring a particularly stubborn, but ultimately fertile, patch of earth. His face, weathered and creased like a map of forgotten gold mines, held an expression that suggested he knew more about the secrets of the universe than most men dared to imagine, and probably a thing or two about keeping nineteen wives content. You could bet your last dollar that if a man could turn barren desert into a blooming rose garden, and a band of weary pilgrims into a veritable empire, it was Brigham. He wasn't no silver-tongued orator like some of those eastern fellas – no, his words came out like chunks of granite, plain and unvarnished, but they landed with the force of a runaway stagecoach. Some folks called him a prophet, others a tyrant. Likely he was a bit of both, seasoned to taste and served up with a heaping helping of pioneer ingenuity. He had a way of looking at you that made you feel both intensely scrutinized and oddly comforted, as if he could see clear through your shirt and into the dusty corners of your soul. And heaven help you if he found something he didn't like lurking in there. The man had a backbone stiffer than a wagon axle, and a will stronger than a team of oxen pulling uphill. He ruled this roost with an iron hand, mind you, but it was an iron hand that had built homes, dug irrigation ditches, and generally whipped a wilderness into shape. He wasn't always pretty, but he was always effective, and out here on the edge of beyond, that counted for more than all the polished manners and flowery speeches you could shake a stick at. Whether he was a saint or a sinner was a question best left to the theologians, but one thing was certain: Brigham, like it or not, had left his indelible mark on this blasted land, a mark that would likely remain long after the sagebrush had reclaimed his empire.
