Now, concerning this bucksheesh, or as some more delicate souls might whisper, the “gratuity,” let us not mince words and pretend it’s some philanthropic outpouring of the heart. It ain't. It’s lubrication, pure and simple. A bit of grease applied to the cogs of a society that finds itself perpetually stuck in the mud. You see it everywhere east of the Mediterranean, thicker than flies on a honey pot. A fellow can't so much as ask the way to the nearest caravanserai without finding a palm extended, itching for a silver scratching. One time, in Cairo, I swear I saw a blind beggar demand bucksheesh from his seeing-eye dog - a scrawny, flea-bitten cur, mind you, who looked as if he hadn’t seen a decent bone in weeks. Even the dog, it appeared, knew the drill.

Now, the tenderfoot, fresh off the steamer with pockets jingling like a gypsy’s tambourine, might get his dander up about this constant badgering. He’ll sputter about principle, about the inherent dignity of labor, and all such highfalutin nonsense. He'll try to bribe his way out of paying the small bribes, the irony escaping him entirely. He’ll declare that he shouldn’t have to grease a palm to get a simple pot of tea or a donkey ride that doesn't involve being deliberately steered into a dung heap. But bless his naive heart, he'll learn soon enough. He’ll learn that bucksheesh ain’t just about lining pockets, though it certainly does that with admirable efficiency. It’s about expediting matters, about opening doors, about greasing the wheels of progress, or at least preventing them from grinding to a halt altogether. It’s the oil can of the Orient, applied liberally and with a wink. And if a few extra coins happen to stick to the applicator’s fingers in the process, well, who are we to judge? Let he who is without a perpetually outstretched palm cast the first stone. Besides, a wise traveler knows a well-placed bit of bucksheesh can save him a heap of trouble, and a heap of trouble in these parts is a heap more than any sane man wishes to accumulate.
