Baden, ah, Baden! A name that rolls off the tongue like a rogue billiard ball, careening haphazardly towards some unseen pocket of Continental absurdity. One arrives expecting paradise, or at least a faint echo of it, promised by the glittering brochures and the oily pronouncements of travel agents who, I suspect, have never ventured further east than Hoboken. What one finds, however, is a spectacle, a most peculiar theatre of human foibles played out against a backdrop of rather fetching, if slightly damp, hills. The waters, you see, are touted as miraculous, possessing the power to mend broken bones, soothe frayed tempers, and perhaps even restore a lost fortune, though I saw no evidence of the latter amongst the perpetually gloomy faces huddled around the Trinkhalle, each nursing a glass of that sulphuric swill like a newborn babe. The nobility, or what's left of them (for the Revolution, you know, had a rather uncouth way of downsizing the aristocracy), parade about in their finery, looking like slightly moth-eaten peacocks displaying their plumage in a perpetual drizzle. Their diamonds, of course, are dazzling, but their conversation, alas, lacks the same luster. One overhears snippets of whispered intrigue, of lost estates and disgruntled cousins, of romantic liaisons that would make a seasoned novelist blush (or perhaps yawn, depending on the degree of seasoning). The Kursaal, that gaudy temple of chance, beckons with its siren song of roulettes and faro, promising riches beyond measure and delivering, more often than not, a crushing sense of existential despair. And the gardens! Exquisitely manicured, to be sure, but filled with so many signs warning one not to tread on the grass that one wonders if the flowers themselves aren't secretly employed as constables, ready to pounce upon the slightest transgression. Yes, Baden is a curious place, a grand and gilded cage where the privileged few flutter about, desperately trying to escape the boredom of their own opulence. A place, in short, that leaves one simultaneously amused, bewildered, and itching for a good cup of American coffee.
