Now, Damascus, bless its ancient heart, is a city so old it makes Methuselah look like he just popped out of the cradle. Why, they claim it was founded back when folks were still using rocks for currency and hadn't quite gotten the hang of trousers. One might be inclined to believe it, seeing as how some of the buildings look like they were put up around that time and haven’t seen a lick of repair since. But there's a certain charm to that dilapidation, a sort of seasoned dignity, like an old codger in a tattered coat, still telling grand tales of his youth.

The streets, mind you, are a veritable labyrinth, designed, I suspect, by a committee of blind squirrels. You wander about, turning this way and that, convinced you're on a new adventure, only to find yourself back at the same spice merchant you passed an hour ago, hawking saffron at a price that would make a robber baron blush. And the smells! Lawks alive, the smells could knock a buzzard off a manure wagon. There's the sweetness of jasmine fighting for dominance against the tang of donkey droppings, the aroma of roasting lamb wrestling with the pungency of some mysterious concoction bubbling away in a back alley cauldron. It's an olfactory circus, I tell you, a symphony of the senses both pleasant and profoundly unsettling.

And the people! A grand, motley collection of merchants, mystics, mendicants, and murmurers. They bargain with the ferocity of cornered tigers, tell stories with the flourish of accomplished thespians, and seem to hold secrets older than the city itself in their knowing eyes. One can’t help but feel like an interloper, a bumbling tourist poking about in a place where history is not just written in books, but breathed in the very air. Though, to be fair, the air does occasionally smell of donkey droppings, which does rather take the romance out of things. Still, Damascus, for all its quirks and quandaries, possesses a magnetism that is undeniable. A stubborn, ancient, and somewhat smelly magnetism, perhaps, but magnetism nonetheless.
