Morgan, now there was a specimen. Found him out west, prospecting for… well, I never did quite figure out what he was prospecting *for*, exactly. Seemed to be hoping for a miracle more than anything else, bless his cotton socks. Said he was looking for gold, but spent more time arguing with jackrabbits and trying to teach his mule, Betsy, to play poker with rocks. Betsy, mind you, was a mule of refined stubbornness, a creature that would make a politician look positively pliable. Morgan swore she understood his arguments about the proper bluffing technique, just lacked the opposable thumbs. I reckon he was right, considering the glares she’d give him when he lost.

He was a fella who’d talk the ears off a brass monkey, spinning yarns taller than the sequoias they’d told me grew somewhere down south. Claims to have wrestled a grizzly bear for a prime claim, only later admitted the bear was actually a badger with a particularly aggressive disposition. Seemed truth took a backseat to a good story in Morgan’s book, which was just fine by me. Entertainment was scarcer than water in Death Valley, after all. He was a walking, talking tall tale himself, a human exaggeration in a landscape already prone to wild embellishment.

Had a heart of gold, though, underneath all that bluster and foolery. Always ready to share the last of his beans, even if Betsy would glare daggers at him for doing so. He’d tell me, with a wink, “Share the wealth, Twain, even if it ain’t much. A man’s remembered for what he gives, not what he hoards, unless he hoards whiskey, then that’s a different matter entirely.” A right philosophical cuss, that Morgan, disguised as a harmless, addle-brained gold-seeker. And, you know, for all his eccentricities, I wouldn’t trade a night around his campfire for a king’s ransom. Some folks are just… necessary, like a good cup of coffee or a well-aimed spittoon. Morgan was one of those folks. A genuine article, even if the article was slightly cracked around the edges.
