Now, about that portier. A portier, mind you, is just a fancy Frenchified name for a door curtain, though I reckon calling it a "door curtain" wouldn't impress the ladies at the church social, would it? They’d look at you as if you’d just served possum for supper. I saw one the other day, hanging in the parlor of Widow Hopkins, bless her soul, though she does have a fondness for decorating with enough lace to outfit a small sailing vessel. This portier, it was a tapestry affair, depicting, as near as I could tell through my squinting, a hunting scene gone terribly awry. There was a stag, looking considerably unimpressed, and a gaggle of fellows in tights, clearly more concerned with their precarious perch atop startled horses than any actual hunting. Seemed more a theatrical production than a wilderness pursuit, if you ask me.

The thing was heavy, near lead-lined, I suspect. Probably installed to keep the drafts out, seeing as Widow Hopkins lives in a drafty old house that’s probably older than Methuselah, or maybe just to keep out callers she didn’t fancy. It did have a certain… gravitas, I suppose, a somber air that suggested secrets whispered and deals made behind its velvet folds. I imagined gentlemen of dubious character plotting nefarious deeds behind it, or perhaps young lovers stealing clandestine kisses, all while the stag on the tapestry continued to look supremely bored. I further supposed that if it could talk, that portier would likely offer a comprehensive and unflattering report on every comings and goings inside that household for decades. It would make the "Town Crier" newspaper looks like a sanitized pamphlet of sunshine and bunnies. Truly, it was a solemn, secretive sort of drape, and no doubt worth more than my entire year’s earnings, though I daresay I wouldn't trade my freedom to not possess a portier for all the tea in China. Now if you'll excuse me, I see a dog chasing a squirrel, and that's a sight worth more than any stag in fancy tights!
