Zermatt, bless its pointed little head, is a village clinging to the foot of the Matterhorn like a lovesick calf to its mother. A village, mind you, where the principal form of locomotion seems to be an electric golf cart, driven by fellows with the grim determination of a surgeon about to operate. They whiz about, these diminutive contraptions, silent as church mice yet capable of inflicting a truly alarming amount of pedestrian near-death experiences. One half expects to see them fitted with little cannons, primed to blast any tourist caught dawdling in the road. And the tourists! Good heavens, the tourists. A veritable menagerie of humanity, dressed in every imaginable shade of alpine-chic, from the blindingly neon to the subtly… well, still blindingly neon, just in a different way. They stroll about, these hopeful mountaineers, gazing upwards with the reverence of pilgrims at a particularly picturesque deity. 

The Matterhorn itself, of course, is the culprit behind all this fuss. A rather imposing piece of real estate, I'll grant you, shaped like a jagged fang, ever-threatening to bite the sky. But frankly, after a while, one begins to suspect it's all a bit of a racket. Charge admission, call it the "Matterhorn Experience," and be done with it. The air is ever crisp, I must say, and expensive. You pay for it, of course. You pay for the privilege of breathing it, the privilege of gawking at a mountain, the privilege of being nearly run over by a silent electric golf cart. Even the flowers, those cheerful little bursts of color clinging to the window boxes, seem to whisper of exorbitant prices. They are, no doubt, secretly plotting to increase their rates for photosynthesis. But oh, the views! One could almost forgive them the outrageous cost of a simple cup of coffee – almost. For a view like that, one might be tempted to sell a moderately successful novel and declare oneself permanently bankrupt in the Swiss Alps. A foolish notion, of course, but then, Zermatt has a way of inspiring foolish notions. It's the air, I tell you. It's the air. Or perhaps it's the exorbitant prices, addling the brain. One can never be too sure.
