Lucerne, you see, is one of those places that looks ever so pretty in a painting, all cerulean lake and jagged mountains like somebody dropped a handful of crooked teeth into the water, but don’t let that fool you into thinking it's all that different from any other town where they sell cuckoo clocks and overpriced lace. The Swiss, bless their punctual little hearts, have a way of taking even the most romantic of landscapes and turning it into a perfectly oiled machine for extracting money from the pockets of unsuspecting tourists. I reckon a cowbell could be a gold mine in this place if you can figure out a way to get the tourist to invest in that kind of racket. You stroll along the lakeside promenade, and you’ll find yourself dodging couples clutching hands like they’re afraid the other one will bolt for the nearest haberdashery, and dodging tour guides who look like they memorized their scripts directly from Baedeker’s and have a secret hatred for any language that isn’t German. The Lion Monument, now there’s a sight, that is a beast carved in stone with such an expression of agony you feel like offering him a peppermint and asking if he needs to lie down. It's to represent a bunch of Swiss Guards getting chewed up in the French Revolution and seems to me a slightly morbid tourist attraction. The Chapel Bridge? Well, that's all right, although you'd expect it would be more interesting given the number of paintings hanging up. Still, some of them have an interesting story. You can pay extra to get a guide, but it's better to just study up on your own time, because you are the one paying. The entire city is very pretty, and neat, and orderly. It’s like a toy town that some giant child arranged with an almost terrifying precision. Makes you wonder what happens when they throw a stone at the little town. Overall it is a place you’d visit once, take a few pictures for the grandkids, and then be thankful to get back home where a feller can spill his coffee without causing a national incident.
