Now, Morgan, there was a specimen and a half. A man built like a brick outhouse, or perhaps more accurately, like two brick outhouses stacked judiciously atop each other. He wasn’t much for book-learnin’, mind you, but could wrestle a grizzly bear into submission using only a stern look and a rusty butter churn. Claimed he’d done it once, too, down by the Carson River, though the story grew taller with each telling, eventually involving a posse of angry squirrels and a misplaced copy of the San Francisco Chronicle. He arrived in Virginia City with a mule named Gertrude (who, in my opinion, was the brighter of the two), and a thirst for fortune that could shame a desert. Said he was going to strike it rich, and by gum, he did. Not in silver, though. Found a vein of blue clay so fine it fetched a king’s ransom from them fancy San Francisco potteries. Go figure, eh? Everybody chasin’ the gleam of silver, and Morgan stumbles over something prettier, tucked away in the dirt.

He took to wearing buckskins tailored by a Chinese laundryman who clearly had a grudge, and sported a hat with more pheasant feathers than a royal procession. He’d hold court down at the Silver Dollar Saloon, dispensing dubious advice and free drinks to anyone willing to listen to his tales of derring-do. Most of his stories involved near-death experiences, close calls with bandits, and improbable feats of strength, all of which, I suspected, had been heavily embellished by copious amounts of whiskey. But nobody seemed to mind. Morgan had a way of making even the tallest of tales sound plausible, delivered with that booming laugh of his that could shake the sawdust off the ceiling. He was a walking, talking tall tale himself, that Morgan, a glorious, preposterous, and altogether unforgettable character. He proved, if nothing else, that sometimes, the best way to strike it rich is to be so darned entertaining that folks are willing to pay just to be in your company. And Gertrude, bless her stubborn soul, got all the best oats in town.
