Heidelberg! A town that clings to the neck of the Neckar like a lovesick maiden, unwilling to let go. And bless her for it, because a prettier sight you’d be hard-pressed to conjure, even with the aid of generous quantities of the region's famous wine. The castle, perched up there like a robber baron’s tooth, is a magnificent ruin, of course. Ruin being the operative word. One wanders its courtyards, imagining grand banquets and haughty counts, only to be brought down to earth by another crumbling wall and a sign warning one not to touch. Touching being, apparently, strictly verboten amongst historical rubble. 

The students, however, are a different story. They’re everywhere, bright-eyed and bushy-tailed, or perhaps more accurately, bright-eyed and clutching steins of beer. They seem to have a knack for transforming even the most solemn monument into a backdrop for a jovial gathering. One almost expects them to start carving their names into the Philosophenweg, adding to the already impressive collection of lovers’ initials and pronouncements of undying affection. Undying, that is, until the next semester begins and a fresher face catches the eye. 

And the bridge! Ah, the Alte Brücke! With its monkey holding a mirror – presumably for the benefit of the self-conscious apes of Heidelberg – and its bronze electors, it is a thing of beauty. One throws a coin into the Neckar, ostensibly for luck, but secretly hoping it doesn't end up lodged in some tourist's sandal. But the true charm of Heidelberg, I suspect, lies not in its majestic ruins or its bustling student life, but in its ability to be perpetually charming. It’s a town where history and merriment waltz together, occasionally tripping over a cobblestone but always managing to land on their feet, grinning from ear to ear and ready for another round of beer and another verse of a student song. Indeed, if Heidelberg were a person, I'd suspect it would be the kind of friend who always has a good story to tell, a mischievous twinkle in their eye, and a generous flask of schnapps hidden in their pocket.
