Lucerne, you say? Well, Eve, bless your heart, you wouldn’t believe the fuss they make over that place. Seems like every tourist with a guidebook and a freshly laundered traveling frock thinks they’ve *discovered* something new. The Lion of Lucerne, they all gawk at it, that poor beast hacked out of stone, commemorating some Swiss Guards what got themselves killed defending Marie Antoinette. Sad, I suppose, but I’ll be darned if I can muster up enough sympathy to rival the mosquitoes feasting on me while I stand there in the throng. It's a magnificent sight, I concede, but the melancholy of it all weighs a body down something fierce.

Then there’s the lake, all shimmering and pretending to be profound. It reflects the mountains, sure, and the sunlight dapples and dances like so many mischievous sprites, but underneath it all, it's just water, Eve. Plain old water, full of fish and the occasional drowned rat, I suspect. And the mountains! Oh, the mountains! They loom over everything like disapproving aunts, judging your every frock and every questionable pastry you dare consume. You try to admire their majestic beauty, but all they seem to say is, “Hmph, more tourists. Haven’t seen a good edelweiss blooming around here since nineteen ought-ought.”

And the clock, the big astronomical clock, why, it's ticking away the hours, reminding you of your own mortality with every chime. All those intricate workings, telling you when the planets are aligned and who-knows-what-else. Seems to me they are just trying to make common people feel small and ignorant. And then the bridges! Covered bridges with pictures of plagues and deaths, a morbid reminder that all this beauty is, well, temporary. All in all, Lucerne is quite the sight. A place to make you glad that you will never stay in one place for too long. As for me, Eve, I’m headed off to find a place where the scenery is a little less judgmental and the pastries are a bit more generous with the cream. Besides, I hear there's a talking bear in Bern. And I'm not one to miss a good story.
