Higbie, now there’s a specimen fit to hang in a museum, right alongside the stuffed dodo bird and a two-headed calf. A man of parts, as they say, though I reckon most of the parts were either missing or wired together backwards. He was a claim-jumping, hard-drinking, storytelling marvel, a regular fountain of misinformation with a nozzle that rarely dripped truth. I met him up in Aurora, where the silver was thicker than fleas on a stray dog, or at least, *used* to be. Higbie, he was always just a day late and a dollar short, perpetually sniffing around claims that'd already been milked drier than a bone in the desert sun. Said he had an “eye” for finding ore, but I suspect his “eye” was more practiced at finding the bottom of a whiskey bottle.

He’d spin yarns so tall they’d scrape the clouds, about veins of silver pure enough to pave the streets of San Francisco, and mines so rich they made Croesus look like a church mouse. Always, these fabled El Dorados were “just over the next ridge,” or “down that gulch where the grizzly took a liking to my mule.” Never could seem to actually produce the silver, mind you, just the story, and the story got more outlandish with every telling. One time, he swore he’d wrestled a mountain lion for a nugget the size of a hen’s egg. Another, he claimed to have discovered a lost city of Aztecs, guarded by giant bats and shimmering with gold. Believed him? Well, you might as well believe in fairies and honest politicians.

But here's the thing, though he was a humbug of the first water, Higbie was a *likable* humbug. He had a twinkle in his eye, a ready laugh, and a way of making you feel like you were in on the joke, even when you knew he was pulling your leg right off. He was a vital ingredient in the stew of the mining towns, a bit of spice, a dash of pepper. He was the fool, the charlatan, the incurable optimist that somehow, against all odds, kept believing that tomorrow, maybe tomorrow, he'd strike it rich. And you know what? I suspect that somewhere deep down, we all wanted to believe it right alongside him.
