Winter, bless its frosted heart, descends upon these territories like a disgruntled landlord, arriving precisely when you least expect it and bringing with it a whole host of complaints. The first snowfall, oh, it’s all “ooohs” and “aaahs” and folks acting like they’ve never seen a bit of frozen water before. They prance about like chickens in a lightning storm, taking pictures of every twig that’s got a dusting on it. Give it a week, though, and those same folks are cursing the very snow they were fawning over, grumbling about shoveling and slick patches that send a fella sprawling faster than you can say "bobcat." And the wind! Lord have mercy, the wind howls like a banshee mourning a lost poker game, rattling windows and generally behaving like a badly behaved opera singer who’s missed his cue. You’d think living out here would make a man accustomed to such weather, but I reckon acclimatizing to winter is like acclimatizing to toothache; you might learn to tolerate it, but you’ll never quite enjoy it.

Then there’s the peculiar habit these mountain winters have of playing temperature tricks. You’ll wake up one morning, the sun a-shining, the air crisp enough to snap a icicle in two, and figure you can get away with just a light jacket. Next thing you know, a squall’s blown in from who-knows-where, dropping the temperature twenty degrees faster than a politician drops a promise. It’s enough to make a man believe in weather demons, mischievous little imps dedicated solely to tormenting anyone who dares to venture outdoors. And the animals? They've all got the right idea, hibernating like a bunch of wise old hermits. A fella sometimes wonders if he shouldn't follow suit, burrowing into a warm bed and not emerging until the first robin starts warbling about springtime. But no, duty calls, or more accurately, the need to chop wood and feed the stove. Winter might be a bothersome old grump, but it’s a grump you gotta learn to live with, same as a grumpy old mule, or a gold prospector who thinks he’s struck the mother lode.
