Now, Morgan, that fellow was a specimen, a veritable curiosity fit for P.T. Barnum himself, though I doubt even Barnum could have wrung a good show out of him without a liberal dose of exaggeration. I first encountered Morgan out in Nevada, prospecting – or, more accurately, *claiming* to be prospecting. He had a claim alright, looked like the devil himself had chewed on it and spat it back out, all dust and delusion. Said he was after the motherlode, the granddaddy of all veins, the kind that'd make Croesus look like a church mouse. Spent most of his days sitting on a rickety chair, whittling away at a stick of wood and staring wistfully at the horizon. Said it helped him visualize the gold shimmering beneath his feet. I reckon a man could visualize anything if he stared long enough at that barren wasteland.

He possessed a certain air of quiet desperation, mixed with a dash of naive optimism that was truly astonishing. He’d spin yarns of untold riches, of nuggets the size of hen’s eggs, and silver veins so thick they could pave the streets of San Francisco. All this delivered with a straight face, mind you, as if he’d actually seen these wonders. And yet, he never seemed to, you know, actually *dig* for any of it. He claimed to be waiting for the “right moment,” the precise alignment of the planets, or perhaps the call of a particularly chatty raven. Whatever it was, it involved more waiting than working.

Morgan was also a walking encyclopedia of useless information. He could tell you the mating habits of the desert tortoise, the medicinal properties of sagebrush, and the precise number of grains of sand in a square foot of Nevada desert (give or take a few million). Fascinating stuff, no doubt, but not exactly conducive to striking it rich. Still, he was harmless enough, and entertaining in his own peculiar way. A man content to dream of gold, even if he never held a speck of it in his hand. I always figured Morgan was living proof that it wasn't always the gold that mattered, but the *dream* of it. The dream was free, and in Nevada, that was saying something.
