Now, concerning this business of sepulchers, or tombs, as the moderns are pleased to call them, I've seen a fair sprinkling in my day, from the humblest prairie sod piled high over some departed sodbuster, to those grand, ornate affairs in Europe, where dukes and emperors lay snoring for eternity. And let me tell you, the vanity of mankind extends even beyond the grave, clinging like a persistent tick to the notion that a fellow's earthly worth can be judged by the size and fussiness of his final resting place. You see these elaborate constructions, these marble mausoleums, crammed full of angels perpetually weeping, and one can't help but wonder if the deceased wouldn't have preferred a simple pine box and the cash saved invested in a decent bottle of whiskey for the mourners. Seems more sensible, don't it?

Why, I recall once visiting a fellow's tomb in Italy – a chap so wealthy, they practically paved the road to his sepulchre with gold leaf. Inside, it was all frescoes and mosaics, depicting the man's life, each scene more self-aggrandizing than the last. It was as though he feared Saint Peter might not have read his autobiography and needed a pictorial summary to decide whether he was worthy of pearly gates. The irony, of course, was that this fellow, by all accounts, was a right scoundrel, a loan shark who'd squeezed the life out of half the town. Yet, there he lay, enshrined in splendor, while the folks he'd ruined probably couldn't afford a decent headstone for their own kin. Makes you question the Almighty's sense of humor, or perhaps just his eyesight.

And the inscriptions! Oh, the grand pronouncements carved in stone, filled with virtues the departed likely never possessed in life. "A loving husband," one might read, when everyone knew the man had been run ragged by his wife for forty years, and glad for it too, by the sound of things. "A pillar of the community," another would declare, when the only pillar the man had ever supported was the one at the saloon. It's a performance, this sepulchre business, a show put on for the living, a last-ditch attempt to rewrite history and paint a rosy picture of a life that was likely more complicated, and perhaps a tad less saintly, than the marble suggests. But who am I to judge? Perhaps even I shall wind up in one of these glorified pigeon houses, with some flatterer carving lies for posterity. Heaven help us all.
