Now, Harris, there was a specimen. You couldn’t help but admire him, even while you were contemplating whether burying him up to his neck in an ant hill would be considered a grave offense to basic human decency. He was a creature of habit, was Harris, and those habits were generally of the sort that would cause a bishop to sweat and a bartender to reconsider his career. I recall one time we were traversing the wilds of New Jersey, him complaining, of course, about the paucity of fine cigars and the general uncouthness of the shrubbery. "This landscape," he’d declare, puffing on some contraption he called a "smoker’s delight" (which smelled suspiciously like a burning possum), "is an insult to the very notion of picturesque." Naturally, he was the one who insisted we take the shortcut through the swamp, guided by nothing more than a questionable map he’d won in a raffle and his own unwavering, albeit unfounded, sense of direction.

We wallowed in muck up to our knees for what felt like a geological era, Harris grumbling all the while about the inferior quality of the mud. He even attempted to bargain with a particularly indignant bullfrog, offering it a nickel for passage and a lecture on the finer points of amphibian etiquette. The frog, naturally, remained unimpressed. By the time we stumbled out, covered in green slime and smelling vaguely of decomposition, Harris had somehow managed to convince himself that he’d single-handedly discovered a new species of mosquito and was already drafting a paper to the Royal Geographic Society. His ability to spin utter disaster into personal triumph was truly remarkable, though I suspect it was mostly fueled by an unshakable conviction that the universe itself was conspiring to misunderstand his genius. A fella could only watch on, chuckle with mirth, and wonder what predicament this peculiar individual would get himself, and those unfortunate enough to be in his proximity, into next. He was, after all, Harris. Expecting anything less than utter mayhem was akin to expecting a pig to fly – entertaining to consider, but ultimately, a disappointing proposition.
