Now, Morgan, there was a fella. Not the kind you’d trip over twice in a crowded saloon, mind you. He was a specimen, alright, though whether of human ingenuity or sheer stubborn mule-headedness, I ain't prepared to say. Came out West, he did, with nary a pot to piss in and dreams big enough to dam the Missouri. Claimed he knew how to find silver. “Knew,” he said, like he held the very secrets of the earth in his grubby little hands. Now, I've known claim-jumpers and charlatans a-plenty in my time, and Morgan, he had the look of both. But there was a fire in his eyes, a kind of desperate optimism that could melt glaciers, or at least convince you to part with your last dollar.

He convinced a few, bless their foolish hearts. Old Man Hemlock, who smelled more of whiskey than dirt; Tilly, the boarding house cook with a gold tooth and a yearning for adventure; and even young Billy, fresh off the farm and green as a spring sprout. They formed Morgan’s Motley Crew, I called 'em, and struck out for the hills, armed with picks, shovels, and enough misplaced faith to move mountains. They dug and they sweated, blistered their hands and cursed the relentless sun, but nary a glint of silver did they find. Weeks turned into months, and the optimism began to fade faster than a politician’s promises. Hemlock went back to the whiskey, Tilly to her pots, and Billy, well, Billy looked ready to cry most days.

But Morgan? He just kept digging. He was like a dog with a bone, convinced that just one more swing of the pickaxe would unlock the Mother Lode. Some called him mad, others just plain stubborn. I figured he was a little of both. Never found his silver, as far as I know. Ended up running a dry goods store over in Carson City, selling shovels, ironically enough. Made a decent living, I reckon, though I always figured he harbored a secret disappointment, a buried treasure of unfulfilled dreams, right alongside those shovels and bolts of calico. And you know, sometimes, I thought I saw a flicker of that old fire in his eyes when someone came in looking for a good prospecting pick. Like maybe, just maybe, he was still hoping to strike it rich, even if only vicariously through some other poor sap’s delusions of grandeur.
