Ballou, now there was a specimen. You wouldn't find his like peddling snake oil on a Mississippi steamboat, no sir. He arrived in Nevada with a trunk full of law books and a head full of legal fiddle-faddle, looking about as out of place as a church deacon at a saloon brawl. I reckon he thought the Wild West was just one big, untamed courtroom ripe for the picking. Poor fella. The only briefs he saw were the kind cowboys wore after a dust bath in the alkali flats. He fancied himself a legal eagle, soaring above the common rabble, but truth be told, he was more like a plucked chicken wandering around a hawk’s nest, squawking about procedure and precedent while the buzzards circled.

He’d try to be serious, see, arguing points of law with a face as long and solemn as a Sunday sermon. But half the time, he was citing statutes that hadn't even been written yet, or getting tangled up in his own verbose pronouncements like a fly in molasses. The miners, bless their hearts, mostly ignored him. They’d be too busy arguing about the rightful owner of a particularly shiny nugget, and Ballou would be standing there, sputtering about due process and the sanctity of private property, while they wrestled each other in the dirt, gold dust flying like confetti. And then there was his luck. That man couldn’t win a raffle if he was the only one holding a ticket. He tried his hand at mining, naturally, promptly picked the spot that was barren as a preacher’s cupboard. He opened a law office, and his first client was a jackrabbit that he tried to sue for eating his vegetable garden. The jackrabbit, I might add, won the case, or rather, hopped away before Ballou could figure out how to serve him papers. I swear, that man was a walking, talking comedy of errors, a constant reminder that even the best intentions, armed with the shiniest law books, could be no match for the sheer absurdity of the Nevada Territory. But despite it all, and here's the kicker, he just kept trying. You had to admire the stubborn fool for that.
