So, this here Morgan, a fellow you’d likely pass in the street without a second glance, unless, of course, he was attempting to sell you a dubious claim to a gold mine that existed solely in his overactive imagination. He weren’t no different than a thousand others drawn west by the glitter, I reckon, except for one thing: his unwavering belief that fortune was just around the bend, hiding behind a tumbleweed or buried beneath a particularly stubborn patch of sagebrush. He arrived in Virginia City lookin' like he'd been chewed up and spat out by a particularly irritable mule, dusty and thinner than a rail fence after a good wind. He swore he was a geologist, which I suspected meant he could tell the difference between dirt and slightly different dirt. He spouted terms like “stratification” and “igneous intrusion,” though I suspect he cribbed 'em all from a pamphlet he found blowing down C Street.

Morgan spent his days wanderin' the hills, hammerin' at rocks and muttering to himself like a preacher lost in his sermon. He’d come back to the saloon in the evenings, dustier still and somehow even more optimistic, buy a round with the few coins he had left, and regale us with tales of the “mother lode” he was about to unearth. Lord knows, we'd heard it all before. We’d listen patiently, mostly because his optimism was kinda infectious, like a mild case of gold fever. Plus, he usually picked up the tab for the first round. Of course, the mother lode never materialized. Morgan did, however, discover a remarkably persistent species of desert lizard that he swore was related to a prehistoric dinosaur. Tried to sell it to the museum back east, even packaged it in a pickle jar. They sent it back with a strongly worded letter. Still, Morgan never lost his spark. He simply dusted himself off, picked up his hammer, and went back out to search for the next big thing, dinosaur lizards and non-existent gold mines, God bless his misguided soul. Said he was just testing the waters. Probably ended up falling in.
