Well, Pard! If ever there was a critter designed by a committee of drunken taxidermists, it's the pard. Now, some folks call it a leopard, fancying it up like a lady in a saloon with a feather boa. But out here in the real world, among the sand and sagebrush of my observations, it's a pard, plain and simple. A walking, stalking testament to the Almighty's whimsical side. Why, the Lord must have been chuckling to himself something fierce when he put this beast together. "Let's take a cat," I imagine Him saying, "but paint it with spots like a beginner tried their hand at pointillism after a three-day whiskey binge!"

And those spots! They’re not even sensible. You’d think, for camouflage purposes, they'd be distributed logically, maybe blending in with the dappled sunlight filtering through the trees. But no sir! They’re just scattered about like spilled coffee beans, willy-nilly, all over a coat that’s already the color of dried-out creek bed. I reckon if a pard ever tried to sneak up on a jackrabbit, that rabbit would see him coming a mile off, laugh himself silly, and then hop behind a particularly clever-looking cactus just to be safe.

And the temperament! Oh, don’t even get me started. One minute it's lounging about like a bored millionaire on a divan, swatting flies with its tail; the next, it’s a blur of teeth and claws, ready to rearrange your face into a modern art exhibit. Makes a man think twice about offering it a scratch behind the ears, I tell you what. Though, I confess, I once saw one try to bury a leftover buffalo bone – a sight so ridiculous, seeing this apex predator trying to cover up his supper like a guilty dog – that I nearly choked on my own chaw. No, sir, the pard is a creature of contradictions, a jumble of spots and snarls, a walking, talking advertisement for the idea that the Lord has a sense of humor – even if it’s a rather peculiar one. I wouldn't trade the sight of one for all the silver in the Comstock Lode, mind you. But I wouldn't want to get too close, neither. Just in case the Lord’s joke turns out to be on me.
