Now, about this portier contraption, or as some might pronounce it, with a fancy French twist, "porte-yay," though I reckon the pronunciation is half the battle and the other half is figuring out its purpose. Seems to me it's nothing more than a glorified curtain, hung up with pretensions grander than a Mississippi steamboat captain. Folks will tell you it's meant to keep out drafts, like Old Man Winter’s personal emissary creeping under the doorframe. But I've lived through winters where drafts could freeze the feathers off a chicken, and a flimsy piece of brocade ain't stopping nothing more than a moth with a mission. No, I suspect its true function is to divide a room, creating the *illusion* of privacy, or perhaps to hide a dreadful wallpaper pattern that the missus was talked into by a traveling salesman with a glib tongue and a sample book full of floral atrocities.

One might stumble upon a portier draped dramatically in a grand parlor, separating the "drawing room," where one is supposed to be all refined and civilized, from the "sitting room," where one might actually engage in the scandalous activity of *sitting*. It's a social barrier, you see, like a fancy fence built to keep the common rabble from mingling too closely with the supposed gentry. Why, I recollect once seeing a portier fashioned from velvet so thick it looked like it could stop a cannonball, hanging in the mansion of a railroad baron who was notorious for his tightfisted ways. It was whispered that the portier was more for preventing his guests from sneaking a peek at the dwindling silver supply in the pantry than for keeping out any pesky breezes. And let me tell you, the sound it made when someone swept past was like a mournful whale cry. A truly tragic sound, only slightly less tragic than the fate of those who dared to touch the thing with unwashed hands. All this fuss over a curtain, I tell you, it would make a body laugh, if it weren't so confoundedly perplexing. Seems like humans will find new ways to feel important, even if it just means hanging up a fancy piece of cloth.
