Zermatt, they call it. A place nestled 'twixt the Alps, so high up you half expect to rub shoulders with the angels – though I saw none, mind you, only a disconcerting number of gentlemen in shockingly tight trousers and rather fetching Tyrolean hats. The air is, as they say, bracing. Bracing enough to take your breath clean away, or perhaps that was the cost of the ham sandwich at the summit – exorbitant, I tell you, exorbitant! One would think they mined the ham from the very mountain itself, considering the price. And the Matterhorn! That colossal pyramid of rock, it looms over the entire village like a disapproving headmaster, perpetually scowling at the tourists who gawk at its grandeur. Of course, I gawked too. I’m not immune to a good mountain, though I confess I preferred admiring it from the comfortable distance of my hotel balcony, preferably with a glass of something that wasn't water – the water, bless its Swiss soul, tasted suspiciously of melted glacier, which is perhaps romantic in theory, but not entirely pleasant on the palate.

The town itself is a curious affair. No automobiles allowed, they say, for the sake of the air. A noble cause, to be sure, but it results in a peculiar landscape overrun by electric buggies that whiz about like caffeinated beetles. One nearly ran me over whilst I was attempting to photograph a particularly picturesque cow – a cow, I might add, that seemed utterly indifferent to the majestic scenery surrounding it. Perhaps it had seen it all before. I rather envied its blasé attitude, truth be told. The shops, naturally, are crammed with cuckoo clocks and chocolate, all of which look suspiciously similar to the cuckoo clocks and chocolate one finds in every other Swiss village. Still, one must buy souvenirs, mustn't one? For who would believe I had climbed (or rather, ridden a series of increasingly terrifying cable cars) to such heights if I didn't return with a miniature cowbell and a chocolate Matterhorn that was, ironically, far less imposing than the real thing? A grand adventure, all in all, though I suspect my bones will be aching for a week. And my wallet rather longer than that.
