Now, these Bedouin chaps, bless their sun-baked hides, are a peculiar lot, and no mistake. You find ‘em scattered 'cross the Arabian desert like pepper flung from a careless cook’s hand, a tribe here, a clan there, all followin' ancient paths and raisin’ dust thicker than a politician’s promises. They'll tell you they're descendants of Ishmael, which, considerin' the scarcity of reliable genealogical records in these parts, I suppose is as good a pedigree as any. They live in tents, you see, tents spun from goat hair blacker than a preacher’s mood on a Monday morn, and these tents they move with the seasons, like birds, except considerably slower and with a lot more camels grumbling.

Camels, mind you, are their carriages, their banks, and their dearest companions, though I wager the camel doesn’t always return the sentiment with equal enthusiasm. I watched one fellow the other day try to sweet-talk a particularly stubborn beast into kneeling, the camel's expression suggested it considered the man’s Arabic less than eloquent. Their diets, well, they eat dates aplenty, enough to sweeten the entire Mississippi, along with milk from those cantankerous camels and a bit of roasted goat when fortune, or perhaps a particularly unfortunate goat, smiles upon them. They are a hardy bunch, mind you, able to withstand the scorching sun and the freezin' nights with a stoicism that would put a marble statue to shame. They are also masters of hospitality, offering you coffee bitter enough to curl your hair and dates sweeter than a miser's smile upon counting his gold. Their code of honor, I'm told, is as elaborate as a Parisian gown, though I suspect it's interpreted with about the same amount of flexibility when circumstances demand it. All in all, they’re a survival story writ large on a landscape that’s trying its damnedest to swallow them whole, and you gotta give them credit for that, even if they do smell vaguely of camel and don’t quite understand the appeal of a good stiff glass of Kentucky bourbon.
