Damascus, they call it the “Eye of the Levant,” and a more misleading moniker I've rarely encountered. One pictures a piercing, knowing gaze, capable of discerning truth from falsehood, no doubt reflecting the wisdom of the ages. Instead, I found a city blinkered by dust and choked by the incessant clang of tin-banging artisans, who, if I may be so bold, seemed rather more interested in extracting a pound or two from my traveling purse than imparting ancient wisdom. Why, one day I watched a fellow attempt to sell me a relic of Saladin, complete with purported bloodstains, that looked suspiciously like a piece of rusty scrap iron dipped in beet juice. A comical spectacle, to be sure, though not particularly edifying. The streets, bless their ancient souls, were a veritable obstacle course of donkey carts, stray dogs with dubious pedigrees, and gentlemen hawking wares with a persistence that would put a Mississippi steamboat gambler to shame. And the smells! Imagine, if you will, a symphony of overripe dates, camel dung baked by the unrelenting sun, and the lingering essence of spices that have seen better centuries. It’s enough to make a man question his devotion to historical accuracy, and to consider, quite seriously, if a brisk jaunt to the Alps wouldn’t be a far more agreeable way to spend an afternoon. Yet, confound it all, there's a certain charm lurking beneath the grime and the clamor. Perhaps it's the sheer weight of history pressing down upon the city, a palpable sense of empires risen and fallen. Or maybe it's the unexpectedly succulent lamb kebabs served in dingy little restaurants hidden down labyrinthine alleyways. Whatever the reason, Damascus manages to snag the traveler's heart, much like a persistent beggar snags his coat-tails. You might complain, you might even fume, but in the end, you can't help but concede that this chaotic, perplexing, utterly improbable city is something truly special, even if it’s special in the way a toothache is memorable – nagging, persistent, and ultimately, unforgettable.
