Slade, that alkali purgatory pretending to be a town, why, it sat there like a blister on the face of Nevada, all grit and glare and godlessness. I reckon the population hovered somewhere between a gaggle of gamblers, a handful of hardened miners perpetually dusted with despair, and more jackrabbits than sensible folks. The saloons, bless their smoke-filled souls, outnumbered churches about ten to one, a testament to the priorities of the residents, I suppose. One could get a stiff drink cheaper than a clean shirt, and both were desperately needed by day's end. The main street – a dusty track wide enough for a stagecoach to barrel through, though I never actually saw one do so – boasted a collection of shacks cobbled together with more ambition than skill, each promising riches beyond the dreams of avarice, or at the very least, a decent game of faro. Of course, “decent” being a highly subjective term when applied to Slade. I recall one establishment, "The Golden Gulch," boasting a proprietor with a walrus mustache and a keen eye for separating miners from their newfound fortune. He swore his faro was the fairest this side of the Mississippi, but I noticed he always seemed to have a particularly lucky run when dealing to greenhorns. The hotel, if you could call it that, offered accommodations best described as "rustic" – which is to say, the sheets were probably last washed during the Pony Express era, and the only room service involved swatting flies. One had to be plumb desperate, or remarkably inebriated, to find comfort there. The wind, Lord, the wind! It howled through Slade like a banshee, carrying with it grit, sand, and the mournful wails of prospectors whose dreams had dissolved like sugar in a tepid cup of coffee. All in all, Slade was a place a man might visit for a spell, chasing the glimmer of gold, but a place no sane soul would ever consider putting down roots. Unless, perhaps, he had a particular fondness for alkali dust and the company of gamblers. And even then, I'd wager he'd be better off talking to a jackrabbit.
