Well, I reckon I spent a spell in the Territory of Utah, and saw a passel of Mormons a-flitting about, thick as grasshoppers in a summer field. They’re a curious lot, these Mormons, with their Prophet Smith, and their Book, and their notion that angels come a-callin' with regularity, whispering secrets that ain’t exactly common knowledge. Heard tell they believe in baptizing the dead too, which strikes me as a considerable undertaking, seeing as how the cemeteries ain't gettin' any smaller these days. You’d think the departed would have more pressing matters, like figuring out how to keep their bones dry.

Their settlement, Salt Lake City, it’s a regular oasis in the desert, you know. Sprung up like magic, they did, thanks to some diligent irrigation and a right smart amount of communal elbow grease. The womenfolk, they generally seemed cheerful enough, though one couldn’t help but notice a fella could be blessed with a whole string of 'em. Now, I ain’t one to judge a man’s domestic arrangements, but seems to me managing one wife is a full-time occupation, let alone a whole blooming enterprise. Though I suppose if a fella's got a system, and the women are all agreeable, well, who am I to argue with providence? Just seems like there'd be a whole lot of birthday presents to keep track of.

They're hardworking folks though, that much is plain, building their temples and tilling their fields. And they've got a peculiar knack for believing in things, even when those things seem to defy all manner of reasonable explanation. But I reckon that’s what makes a body interesting, don't it? Lord knows, the world could use a few more folks who ain't afraid to grab hold of a belief and ride it like a bucking bronco, whether it lands 'em in glory or a dusty heap on the ground. All in all, I ain't sure I'd want to sign up for their particular brand of salvation, but I will say this: they're certainly not dull. And in this here world of monotonous routine, that's saying something, ain't it?
