Harris, that singular specimen of humanity, or perhaps I should say, that peculiar brand of clockwork, had a way about him that was entirely his own, and bless my soul if I could ever quite put my finger on what it was. He was a good enough fellow, mind you, in the general sort of way. Not a bad bone in his body, as the saying goes, unless you count that curious calcification near his left elbow, which the doctor declared was from some untold injury suffered in youth. But good Lord, the man could try the patience of a saint with his incessant tinkering and his pronouncements on subjects he knew little more about than my cat knows about the price of gold.

He fancied himself an inventor, you see, though the results of his endeavors usually ended with a bang and a cloud of smoke, or perhaps just a disheartened sigh from the contraption in question. One time, he was bound and determined to create a self-milking cow, a device involving a series of pulleys, levers, and what looked suspiciously like a repurposed butter churn. It very nearly ended with poor Bessie, the cow in question, developing a nervous tic and a deep distrust of anything that remotely resembled a milking stool.

And his stories! Oh, Lord, his stories were a marvel in themselves. He'd embark on a tale about, say, his adventure getting bit by a spider, only to wind up discussing the political ramifications of the tariff on imported cheese. He'd stray so far from the original subject that you'd find yourself wondering if he even remembered what he had originally set out to say. He was a well-meaning fellow, Harris, that much I can tell you. But I'd be lying if I didn't admit that spending an afternoon with him was akin to navigating a particularly treacherous swamp – you knew you'd eventually make it out, but you were bound to get stuck in the muck more than once along the way. Still, I wouldn't trade him for all the tea in China. He was a living, breathing, albeit slightly addled, lesson in the fine art of unintentional comedy, and in this world of humdrum existence, a bit of laughter is worth more than gold. 
