Lucerne, ah, Lucerne. Now, there's a place that tries its best to be picturesque, and mostly succeeds, I must admit. A body could get used to that lake, I reckon, a body with a hankering for still water and mountains looking grand and imposing. Though, between you and me, I do suspect those mountains spend an awful lot of time just standing there, judging us poor mortals down below. And the bridge, the Kapellbrücke, a marvel of engineering, no doubt, though I found myself more preoccupied with dodging the tourist hordes wielding their infernal picture-taking contraptions. They snap at anything that stands still long enough, and some things that don’t, like a flock of hens pecking at stray grains. You’d think they’d never seen a bit of wood before, the way they jostle and crane their necks to see the painted panels. Some of them, I'll wager, couldn’t tell you what those paintings are about even if their lives depended on it. Just something to brag about back home, I suppose, proof that they've been somewhere grand.

The locals, bless their souls, are a sturdy bunch. Polite, mostly, though with that reserved air that suggests they're used to dealing with the afore-mentioned hordes and are doing their best not to let it show. They go about their business with a quiet dignity, selling cuckoo clocks and chocolate to anyone foolish enough to buy them at those prices. Lord, that chocolate! It's enough to tempt a saint into committing a sin or two of gluttony. And the swans! Great, white, arrogant birds they are, gliding along the lake like they own the place. Which, to be fair, they probably do. Toss 'em a bit of bread and they'll practically mug you for more, the brazen rascals. All in all, Lucerne is a fine place to spend a few days, provided you have the patience to navigate the crowds, the stomach to digest the chocolate, and the good sense to not take those swans too seriously. It's a grand show, that's for sure, though whether the show is worth the price of admission…well, that depends on how much a body values a good view and a bit of staged tranquility.
