Now, about these portieres. Eve observed them hangings, you see, betwixt the rooms in that new house of ours, a house which Adam, bless his industrious soul, had fashioned out of mere rock and bramble with a cleverness that would shame a chimpanzee trying to peel a banana. Portieres, Adam called them, a fancy French word that fairly tickled my tongue. Hangings, I would have called them, plain and simple. He said they were for keeping out drafts and lending a certain…*je ne sais quoi*, as he put it, affecting a French accent so atrocious, it would curdle milk. Drafts indeed! As if a few layers of woven leaves could stand between me and the blustery breath of old Boreas himself! Still, they did add a touch of color, I’ll grant him that. One was a rather fetching shade of sunset orange, reminding me of the particularly plump melons ripening down by the fig tree. The other, alas, was a dismal shade of mud brown, much like the earth after a particularly nasty rain. Adam swore he chose it to complement the “rustic charm” of the place, but I suspected he'd simply fallen asleep amidst the dyes and picked the one closest to his resting face.

They served other purposes too, besides draft-dodging and eye-offending. I noticed the cat, Satan (named before his character was fully assessed), found them remarkably entertaining, spending hours swinging from the fringes like a furry little acrobat. And young Cain, bless his mischievous heart, took to using them as a sort of leafy curtain for impromptu theatrical productions. One could scarcely walk through the house without tripping over a troupe of stick-figure actors or being forced to purchase tickets to “The Tragedy of the Lost Apple,” performed with the sort of earnest ineptitude only a seven-year-old can truly muster. All in all, the portieres, while perhaps lacking in practical purpose, served as a constant source of amusement, a vibrant backdrop to the chaotic, blessedly imperfect, performance that was our life together. And what is life, after all, but a grand, rather absurd play, with each of us just clinging to the fringes, hoping not to fall off?
