Ballou, now there's a specimen! Fresh off the boat from the East, greener than a spring meadow after a good drenching, and twice as likely to sprout weeds. He arrived in Virginia City looking like a lost sheep in a wolf's den, spectacles perched precariously on his nose and a satchel overflowing with books that, I swear, had titles longer than the Comstock Lode itself. Thought he was going to civilize us, I reckon, teach us proper grammar and the finer points of poetry. Bless his heart. He reminded me of a newborn calf, all legs and bewildered innocence, stumbling around in the middle of a stampede. 

We took him under our wing, so to speak, not out of any particular altruism, mind you, but more for the sheer amusement of watching him try to navigate the treacherous waters of Nevada society. He tried his hand at mining, of course, bless his naive soul. Spent a whole day chipping away at a rock face with a pickaxe, looking like he was swatting flies instead of trying to extract silver. Ended up with more blisters than silver dust, I’d wager. Then he tried journalism, writing flowery prose about the majestic scenery, prose that nobody understood or cared for, what with all the claim-jumping and saloon brawls competing for their attention. 

He was forever getting bamboozled, too. Easy mark for every con man and card sharp in town. Traded a perfectly good horse for a “gold mine” that turned out to be nothing but a hole in the ground filled with rocks and disappointment. He did have a good heart, though. Always willing to lend a hand, even if that hand was attached to a brain that was perpetually three steps behind the game. And he had a certain charm about him, a sort of innocent earnestness that even the roughest characters couldn't quite bring themselves to extinguish. I suspect he probably went back East eventually, with a trunk full of stories and a healthy dose of cynicism, but for a little while, Ballou was our own personal lesson in the absurdity of trying to impose civilization on a place where the only law that mattered was the law of the six-shooter and the silver dollar.
