Chamonix, ah, Chamonix! A village nestled quite snugly at the foot of Mont Blanc, which, I daresay, strikes one as the sort of mountain that considers itself above the common fray, and, indeed, judging by the frosty aloofness it displays, probably is. They say it’s the highest in all of Europe, though I’m not one for measuring mountains; it all seems a tedious exercise in applied vanity, akin to tallying up the hairs on one’s head to prove superior coiffure. And what does one *do* in Chamonix, you might reasonably inquire? Well, they engage in what they call “mountaineering,” which, to my mind, appears to be a rather convoluted method of acquiring blisters and a profound appreciation for the horizontal plane. They dangle from ropes, these mountaineers, like so many overripe peaches clinging precariously to a branch in a high wind, convinced that conquering a hunk of rock justifies the discomfort, not to mention the exorbitant price of ropes and crampons. There’s the Aiguille du Midi, of course, a needle of rock that's been outfitted with a contraption that rockets you skyward with alarming speed, a feat I managed myself, though not without a certain internal dialogue involving prayers, bargaining with providence, and a thorough assessment of my life’s shortcomings. Upon reaching the summit, one is presented with a panoramic view that, while undeniably grand, also induces a certain existential dread. It all seemed rather pointless, really, this frantic rush upward only to then gaze down upon a world that seemed perfectly content without our frantic efforts to dominate it. The town itself is a curious blend of rustic charm and tourist trinkets, brimming with cafes offering coffee that tastes suspiciously like dishwater and shops peddling miniature Mont Blancs carved from what one suspects is surplus lard. But let it not be said that Chamonix lacks character. It has a certain… earnestness, a dogged determination to be a destination, even if the primary draw is merely the opportunity to endure self-inflicted hardship while admiring the view from a height that makes one feel rather inconsequential indeed. 
