Harris, now there’s a specimen. Bless his heart, he tries, he truly does, but the poor fellow possesses the same natural aptitude for navigation as a cow does for ballet. We found ourselves, not a fortnight ago, attempting a simple river excursion, meant to be a relaxing jaunt after a particularly gruesome bout of housework (which, by the way, I performed admirably, naturally). Harris, being the only one amongst us to have ever laid eyes on a map – or so he claimed, anyway – volunteered to captain the vessel. He commenced his duties with the sort of grave solemnity one usually reserves for funerals and tax audits. First, he declared the map was "somewhat confusing," a statement that felt less like an observation and more like a prelude to disaster. Then, with a flourish that would’ve made a peacock blush, he turned the map upside down. He scrutinized it intensely, his brow furrowed like a ploughed field, and announced, with alarming conviction, that we were heading due south.

Now, I’m no geographer, but even *I* could tell that the sun, blazing directly into our faces, was a fairly reliable indicator that south was the precise direction from which we were *running*. But who am I to argue with a man armed with a map, even one he insists on holding at a physically improbable angle? The next few hours involved a series of unfortunate events: running aground on a sandbar so shallow it looked like the river was merely attempting to get a tan, narrowly avoiding a collision with a family of ducks who seemed considerably more adept at water travel than ourselves, and a spirited debate about whether the weeping willow on the left bank was, in fact, the identical weeping willow on the right bank. The final blow came when we realized we'd been circling the same small island for the better part of an afternoon. Harris, bless his soul, blamed it on “unforeseen currents” and “an unusually deceptive landscape.” I, however, suspected the map had finally had its revenge. One might say, perhaps a little too charitably, that his heart’s in the right place. Though, truth be told, I’m not even sure *that’s* true, when he's at the helm.
