Now, about this Portier, this… door hanging, if you will. I saw one once, in the house of a family claiming kinship to some French baron or another – though, bless their hearts, their accents were thicker than molasses and their ancestral castle looked suspiciously like a converted chicken coop. Anyway, this portier, it was a thing of immense and dubious beauty. Supposedly, it was meant to keep out drafts. Now, I've known drafts that could blow the wig off a preacher, and I seriously doubt this flimsy piece of embroidered tapestry would have stood a chance. It looked more like a particularly flamboyant dish rag that had been run over by a herd of decorative sheep.

The lady of the house, a woman built along the lines of a prize-winning pumpkin, informed me with the gravity of a Supreme Court justice, that the portier was “authentic, darling, absolutely authentic!” Authentic to what, I wondered? To the age when moths dined exclusively on velvet and fringe? It hung there, a sad, drooping spectacle, covered in depictions of what I presume were meant to be hunting scenes. Though, honestly, the animals looked less like fleeing deer and more like they'd simply misplaced their spectacles and were squinting at the horizon.

And the dust! Good heavens, the dust! It hung off that thing like Spanish moss on a cypress tree. You could have written your will in the layers of accumulated grime. I swear, I saw a small colony of dust bunnies attempting to establish a sovereign nation within its folds. And yet, there it remained, this dusty, drooping, possibly moth-eaten abomination, deemed a necessary element of refined living. I couldn't help but think that a sturdy plank of wood would have kept out drafts just as well, and with considerably less existential angst. But then again, I suppose a plank of wood wouldn't have provided the same opportunity for pretentious pronouncements about ancestral lineage and continental sophistication. No, indeed. A plank of wood is just a plank of wood. But a portier? A portier is a statement. A statement, mostly, that you’re probably harboring a family of dust mites and have a penchant for fabrics that predate indoor plumbing.
