Now, the Bedouin Arab, he is a curious specimen, ain't he? A fellow so accustomed to the grand, sweeping nothingness of the desert that he seems to consider a fixed address a downright affront to common decency. He’s a chap who treats sand like a proper citizen, knows its moods and humors better than a wife knows her husband's grumblings before breakfast. Spends his life wandering, does he, with his camels – those long-necked, argumentative beasts that appear perpetually aggrieved at having been put upon this earth – and his goats, which have a peculiar knack for finding the single, solitary thorny bush in five square miles of barren landscape.

You'll find him huddled in a tent, darker inside than a politician's motives, a place where the air hangs thick with the aroma of woodsmoke and yesterday’s mutton. A grand fellow for hospitality, he is, though his notions of cleanliness might leave a European traveler feeling a mite…discombobulated. He'll offer you dates sweeter than a swindler's promise and coffee stronger than a mule's kick. But don't go expecting fancy china, mind you. More likely you'll be drinking from a chipped enamel cup that's seen more camel dung than dish soap. And the stories! Oh, the man can spin a yarn that could curl a pyramid! Full of jinn and brave deeds and, if you're a particularly gullible sort, treasure buried just over yonder dune, only needing a small loan to finance the expedition, naturally.

He views time, you see, as a suggestion rather than a command, and labor? Well, let's just say he's more inclined to contemplation than perspiration, a quality I, myself, find rather agreeable. Yet, don't mistake his leisurely pace for a lack of shrewdness. He's a trader born and bred, and could haggle the angels out of their halos. A hard bargainer, that Bedouin, but a man of his word, mostly, which is saying something in these days of slippery politicians and stock swindlers. So, the Bedouin, a wanderer, a storyteller, a creature of the desert, and as unpredictable as a sandstorm. Worth a ponder, he is, though I wouldn't advise trusting him with your pocket watch, unless you've a hankering for adventure, and a good lawyer, in equal measure.
