Heidelberg, you see, is just the sort of place that would inspire a sentimental sigh from a lovesick mooncalf, and I suppose I can't fault him for it, though I’d much rather invest my sighs in a plate of properly sauced sauerbraten. The castle, perched up yonder like a tipsy giant wearing a crown of crumbling sandstone, is indeed imposing, if one can ignore the fact that it looks as though a particularly enthusiastic God hurled a few too many thunderbolts its way. The ruins are quite fashionable, you know, among the romantic set. Give them a pile of stones in disarray, ideally stained with moss and regret, and they’ll coo like a flock of overfed pigeons. I reckon they’d find even a demolished pigsty profoundly moving, so long as it had a decent view of the Neckar River, which, by the by, isn't half as blue as the picture postcards would have you believe. It's more of a muddy green, really, the color of pea soup left out in the sun a day too long. 

But I digress. The students, bless their youthful, easily addled hearts, are the real attraction here. They wander about the Hauptstrasse in droves, clutching books they’ll probably never read and spouting opinions they’ll probably forget by next Tuesday. They sing and brawl and generally make a jolly nuisance of themselves, which, I suppose, is exactly what one expects of a student. They are, in essence, the yeast that leavens this old town, though I suspect the local shopkeepers would prefer a more manageable strain. And then there's the Heidelberg Tun, a barrel of such gargantuan proportions that Noah himself might have considered taking it on the Ark. It's housed in the castle cellar, and I imagine it was built less to hold wine and more to provide a suitable backdrop for the self-important portraits that line the walls. It is, as they say, a sight to behold, although I confess I found the subsequent tasting of the local Riesling a considerably more engaging exercise. In all, Heidelberg is a confection, a sugary-sweet, slightly dilapidated gingerbread town that leaves you feeling both charmed and slightly sticky.
