Well, pard, let me tell you about the spectacle that unfolded up near Virginia City, a right proper dust-up if ever there was one. It all started, as most things do out here, with a misunderstanding lubricated by a generous helping of rotgut whiskey. See, there was this fella, name of "Doc" Holliday – though I never seen him doctor anything but a deck of cards or a bottle – and he’d taken a fancy to this saloon girl, a real peach named Clementine, who could charm the birds right out of the sky, or at least get a miner to part with his hard-earned dust. Trouble was, Clementine had already cast her affections on a lanky prospector, a fellow by the name of Jebediah, who looked like he’d been carved out of a redwood and dressed in burlap.

Now, Doc, he ain't one to take rejection kindly, no sir. He started making eyes at Clementine, buyin' her watered-down champagne and whisperin' sweet nothin's about trips to San Francisco – all lies, mind you, 'cause Doc was broker than a busted promise. Jebediah, he started to bristle, his knuckles turnin' white as he gripped his beer mug. The tension in that saloon coulda been cut with a dull butter knife. Finally, Doc, fuelled by that liquid courage, let slip a remark about Jebediah lookin' like he’d wrestled a bear and lost. That was it. Jebediah, bless his simple heart, stood up, all six foot-somethin’ of him, and proceeded to rearrange Doc's face in a manner not found in any medical textbook.

The fight spilled out into the street, a tangle of limbs and profanity. I swear, the dust was so thick you could barely see, and the only things clear were the whoops and hollers from the onlookers and the occasional, sickening thud. Now, you might expect Doc Holliday, the supposed gunslinger, to pull a pistol, but truth be told, he was more bark than bite when it came to fisticuffs. Jebediah, on the other hand, fought like a cornered badger, and soon had Doc pinned to the ground, poundin' him like he was kneadin' dough. Finally, the sheriff, a man whose belly preceded him by a good five minutes, lumbered into the fray and managed to separate the two. Doc, bruised and battered, was last seen nursing his wounds with a bottle of something stronger than water, while Jebediah, victorious, swaggered back into the saloon, Clementine clingin' to his arm like a vine on a sturdy oak. And that, pard, is the tale of the saloon brawl, a right humorous testament to the power of love, liquor, and a redwood-sized man with a point to prove.
