Now, about this "bucksheesh," as they call it in the orient; a word that rolls off the tongue with the slippery smoothness of a greased watermelon seed. It's a custom, they tell you, as old as the pyramids themselves, though I suspect human nature being what it is, it likely predates even that marvel of engineering. You see, the notion of a little something extra smoothing the wheels of progress ain't no foreign import, not by a long shot. Back home we just call it a tip, or maybe a bribe if the fella wearing the badge is involved. But bucksheesh? It sounds so much more exotic, doesn’t it? More... inevitable, somehow.

They’ll tell you it’s a way to show appreciation, to express gratitude for a service rendered. But bless their cotton socks, the truth of it is a bit more... nuanced. A fella might be wanting to water his camel at the well, see, and the well-keeper, a stout chap with a mustache that could sweep floors, he might just be experiencing a sudden and inexplicable thirst himself. Coincidentally, a bit of bucksheesh might just quench that very thirst, resulting in the camel getting a nice, long drink. Or you might be waiting in line to get your passport stamped, and the officer, a bored-looking fellow with ink-stained fingers, might be struck by the sudden urgency of a paperwork shuffle, unless, of course, his palm is greased with a little… well, you get the idea.

And don't go thinking this is just for officialdom, no sir. Even the humblest street sweeper might find his work ethic miraculously amplified by a coin or two. Why, I saw a beggar one time, practically paralyzed with lethargy until a generous soul dropped a piastre in his cup. Suddenly, he was up, bowing and scraping like a courtier, practically dancing a jig of gratitude! It was a miracle, I tell you, a veritable Lazarus act fueled by pocket change. So, bucksheesh? It's the lubricant that keeps the gears of the Orient turning, the secret ingredient in the stew of daily life. Accept it, embrace it, and keep a few coins handy, unless you fancy waiting an eternity for that camel to get a drink. You’ll thank me later.
