Well, Carson City. Now, there's a town that could charm the moss off a tombstone, provided that tombstone was particularly fond of dust and the faint smell of sagebrush and dreams deferred. They call it the capital of Nevada, which is a bit like calling a burro the king of beasts. It’s got the capital building, squatting there like a hen guarding a clutch of granite eggs, and a few side streets that seem to wander off into the desert convinced they're headed for Reno but are more likely to wind up face-first in a gopher hole. I reckon I’ve seen more excitement in a plate of cold beans than you’ll find in Carson on a regular Tuesday.

Now, I ain't saying there's not folks there. There are, bless their cotton socks, and most of ‘em seem decent enough, if a little… sun-baked. They’re clinging to notions of respectability and the faint possibility that some grand strike of silver is just around the bend, like a prospector clinging to the last shred of hope in a played-out mine. I saw one fella there, looked like he hadn't smiled since they’d repealed the Comstock Lode. He was telling me about some scheme or other – something to do with government contracts and a brother-in-law who knew a man who knew the governor's barber. I nodded politely, of course, but I was already thinking about the best way to make a hasty retreat before he tried to sell me a piece of the capital building brick by brick.

The saloons, though. Ah, the saloons. They’ve got character, they do. Dimly lit and reeking of cheap whiskey and disappointed ambitions, they're havens for the weary, the broke, and the generally disillusioned. You can find more truth in a Carson City saloon than in a whole library of government documents. Just be careful you don't sit too close to the fella in the corner nursing a beer and muttering about the gold he almost found. He might just want to share his story, and you might just find yourself sharing your last dollar. All in all, Carson’s not a bad spot, if you're partial to quiet evenings, dusty streets, and the constant hum of forgotten dreams. Just don't expect to find yourself knee-deep in champagne wishes and caviar dreams. You’re more likely to find yourself knee-deep in something else entirely, and I ain’t talking silver ore.
