Well, I saw it myself, this glacier – a thing of ice so vast and ancient it made a body feel quite insignificant, rather like a housefly buzzing 'round a cathedral. They call it "glacier," which sounds altogether too refined, too civilized, for a frozen river that creeps along at a snail's pace, grinding mountains into pebbles like a giant, geologic mortar and pestle. It’s blue, some parts of it, a blue so pure it’d make a sapphire blush with envy, and other parts a dreary, muddy grey, all thanks to the dirt and debris it’s picked up along its leisurely journey. Now, they tell me it's moving, inching its way down the valley with the persistence of a persistent bore, and I believe them, though try as I might, I couldn't actually *see* it movin'. I reckon you’d have to set up camp, bring a good book and a couple of decades, and *then* you might notice the change. It's like watching paint dry, only colder, and with the distinct possibility of being crushed by a rogue iceberg the size of a barn.

And the noises! My goodness, the noises! It groans and creaks and cracks like an old man gettin' out of bed, only amplified a thousand times. Sometimes, it emits a thunderous roar that'll shake the very ground beneath your feet. I suspect it's just tryin' to scare off the tourists, which is a perfectly reasonable thing to do, in my opinion. You see these tourists, decked out in their fancy parkas and wielding these little picture-takin' contraptions, clickin' away like mad. They seem to think they're the first to discover this giant ice cube. I wanted to tell them, "Bless your hearts, dears, this thing's been here since before your grandpappy's grandpappy was a twinkle in his daddy's eye." But I didn’t. Figured they were havin' a good time. Besides, you can't argue with enthusiasm, especially when it's accompanied by a healthy dose of blissful ignorance. But there it sits, this glacier, a great, glistening, grumbling monument to the slow and steady power of nature, just waiting to outlive us all. Makes you think, don’t it?
