Brigham, now there's a name that rattles 'round in the gulch like a loose pebble in a prospector's boot. Brigham Young, they called him. The Lion of the Lord, the Moses of the Mormons, the Great American Husband – though some might argue the last one was more of a Great American Industry than a mere title. See, this fella Brigham, he was a character forged in the fires of zeal and tempered with the savvy of a seasoned horse trader. He took the reins of a church that was flatter than a flapjack left out in the rain and steered it clear across the plains, right smack dab into the Valley of the Great Salt Lake. A barren, alkali-ridden patch of nowhere, it was, but Brigham, he squinted at it, saw beyond the sagebrush and jackrabbits, and declared it Zion. And by thunder, if he didn't make it bloom like a rose garden in the desert, or at least a decent field of wheat.

He wasn't one for the fineries, Brigham wasn't. He dressed plain, spoke plain, and ruled with a iron fist wrapped in a velvet glove. Knew how to preach fire and brimstone on Sunday and haggle over the price of flour on Monday. Some folks called him a prophet, others a charlatan, but nobody, and I mean *nobody*, could deny the man had gumption. He could organize a wagon train better than a swarm of ants can dismantle a dropped apple, and he could charm a nickel out of a miser's pocket with a wink and a homespun parable. And the wives? Well, that's a chapter best left to the fireside gossip, ain't it? Suffice it to say, Brigham believed in abundance, in all things, including matrimony. Whether that was divine inspiration or just plain human nature at work, I'll leave it to the theologians and the scandalmongers to debate. But one thing's certain, Brigham Young left a mark on this land that ain't gonna be washed away by any flash flood. He was a builder, a leader, a bit of a scoundrel, and a whole heap of a man. The sort of fella you couldn't help but admire, even while you were keeping a close eye on your wallet and your daughters.
