Goodness gracious, if there's a more absurd creature than the chamois, I'd wager it's been cleverly hidden away in some divine apothecary's cupboard, right alongside the bottled sighs of spinsters. Now, I observed one, just the other day, clinging to a mountain that looked like it had been flung together by a drunken titan, all craggy bits and precarious inclines. This chamois, mind you, was perched upon a patch no wider than my Aunt Abigail’s prized porcelain plate, which, considering Aunt Abigail’s reputation for grandeur, ain't sayin' much. It chewed on some sprig of vegetation, looking for all the world like a philosopher ruminating on the fleeting nature of existence, except likely ruminating on whether the next bite of grass would be quite so prickly.

They’re a curious lot, these chamois, built like a goat that's been on a strict diet of mountain air and sheer willpower. Their legs, they're so thin they look ready to snap at the slightest provocation, yet somehow they manage to catapult themselves up slopes that would send a mountain goat into a panic. It’s a testament to the power of stubbornness, I reckon, or perhaps just a simple lack of common sense. And their horns! Tiny little hooks, like question marks permanently etched upon their brows. I suppose they’re meant for defense, but honestly, I imagine they're mostly used for scratching an itch the beast can’t quite reach.

I hear tell that men hunt them for their hides, which, purportedly, are softer than a baby’s bottom. Well, I dare say a baby’s bottom is quite soft enough, and a fellow could find a less hazardous pastime than scaling a mountain in pursuit of a creature that is more at home on a vertical plane than a hummingbird. But then, humans are a curious lot, too, aren’t they? Always in pursuit of something just out of reach, even if that something is just a piece of ridiculously soft leather obtained at the risk of a fatal tumble. The chamois, it seems, lives a life of perilous balance, and so, in a different way, does the hunter pursuing it. One just hopes they both have a good health insurance, is what I’m saying.
