Ballou, now there was a specimen. A genuine article, stamped and certified. I met him out in Carson City, prospecting for silver with all the enthusiasm of a hound dog chasing a tumbleweed across the desert. He was one of those fellows who radiated earnestness like a stove radiates heat, only the heat was sometimes more along the lines of bewilderment. He claimed to be a lawyer, back East somewhere, but I suspected he’d spent more time chasing butterflies and quoting poetry than arguing before a jury. He had this habit, see, of getting hopelessly lost. You could point him toward a landmark a mile away, clear as day, and he'd wander off in the opposite direction, convinced he was on the right path. Said he had a "powerful inner compass," only his inner compass seemed to be pointed directly at the nearest mud puddle.

One time, we were trekking through the Comstock, hot on the trail of a promising vein – at least, *I* thought it was promising. Ballou, naturally, was more occupied with composing odes to the local sagebrush. We stopped for a bite, and while I was busy hacking away at a slab of bacon, Ballou disappeared. Vanished. No trace. I hollered myself hoarse, figuring he’d tumbled down a ravine or gotten snatched by a particularly ambitious coyote. Turns out, he'd gotten distracted by a family of jackrabbits and followed them for a mile, completely forgetting we were supposed to be digging for fortune. When I finally found him, he was sketching the critters in a notebook, looking for all the world like a professor observing some rare species of philosophical hare. Said he'd had a revelation about the fleeting nature of beauty and the importance of living in the moment. Well, I reckon if I had enough money to burn on jackrabbit-inspired revelations, I might've seen the beauty in it too. But as it was, I just felt like burying him up to his neck in the nearest anthill. Still, he was harmless enough, Ballou. A good-hearted soul, just a bit… adrift in the world. You couldn't help but like him, even when you wanted to throttle him. He was the sort who'd find a silver lining in a sandstorm, and then promptly get lost trying to share it with the nearest Gila monster. A tenderfoot, through and through.
