Gibraltar, bless its impudent little heart, stands there, a hulking great ape of a rock, right smack dab in the middle of things. I tell you, a more strategically placed pile of stone you’ll be hard-pressed to find, unless of course, you’re in the business of strategically placing piles of stone, a decidedly peculiar profession if you ask me. And the British, bless their empire-building souls, saw this immediately. Why, it was like spotting a misplaced top hat at a formal dinner – simply *had* to be claimed! So they snatched it up, oh, some three hundred years ago, give or take a decade or two, and they’ve been clinging to it tighter than a lovesick barnacle ever since.

Now, one might think that a rock, however strategically situated, would be a rather dull affair. But not Gibraltar, oh no! It's riddled with tunnels like a particularly ambitious gopher colony, each one seemingly leading to another, and another after that, until you’re quite convinced you’ve accidentally burrowed your way to the other side of the world. They say these tunnels were built during sieges, and goodness knows, Gibraltar has seen its fair share of those, what with everyone and their brother wanting to have a go at wrestling it away from the British. A good siege, I suppose, keeps the inhabitants from getting too comfortable and complacent. Keeps them digging, anyway.

And then there are the monkeys! Barbary Apes, they call 'em, though "cheeky little thieves" would be a far more apt description. They rule the Rock with a hairy fist, these simian potentates, snatching sandwiches from unsuspecting tourists and generally behaving like they own the place. Which, if one were to be perfectly honest, they very well might. Legend has it that as long as the monkeys remain on Gibraltar, the British will retain their hold. So, you see, the fate of an empire hangs on the whims of a troop of primates. Now, isn't that just the most wonderfully absurd thing you've ever heard? Makes you wonder what sort of simian antics are governing the rest of the world, doesn't it? I suspect, perhaps, more than we'd care to admit.
