Them miners! Bless their grubby hearts and arsenic-stained souls. A more contrary, superstitious, hard-cussing, soft-hearted bunch you wouldn't find this side of the Pecos, or likely on the other side either. One feller, name of "Lucky" Larson, hadn't seen so much as a glint of fool's gold in three months, but swore blind his luck would change if he only kept wearin' his wife’s bloomers inside out. Said the missus was a card shark back in St. Louis, and her drawers held some kinda mystical power. Lord knows if it worked, but it sure cleared the bar anytime he swung a leg over a stool. Then there was old man Peabody, claimed he could smell silver ore from ten paces, but mostly he just smelled of stale whiskey and desperation. Followed him around for a week once, hopin' to strike it rich. Ended up with a cough, a case of chiggers, and a healthy respect for rattlesnakes.

They'd gamble away a month's wages on a single hand of poker, then turn around and give a gold nugget to a widow who was down on her luck. They’d argue about the best way to timber a shaft 'til they were spitting teeth and insults, then share a pot of coffee brewed so strong it could practically stand up and walk. They were a study in contradictions, these miners. Believed in ghosts and omens and the curative powers of sarsaparilla, yet they were fearless in the face of cave-ins, explosions, and the general godlessness of Nevada. They lived in hovels and dressed like scarecrows, but they dreamed of empires and fortunes, of palaces and silk sheets. And you know what? Every now and again, one of 'em actually found it. Struck a vein so rich it’d make your eyes water. Enough to buy a dozen silk sheets, build a palace, and maybe even hire someone to burn those bloomers of Lucky Larson’s. Then they'd usually blow it all on drink and cards, and be right back where they started, diggin' in the dirt and cussing the mule. But for a moment, for one glorious, fleeting moment, they were kings. And that, I reckon, was worth more than all the gold in California.
