Now, Pard, let me tell you about a fella I once knew - name of Clem, though I suspicioned he’d pulled that name right out of thin air, like a magician pulling a rabbit nobody asked for. Clem was, to put it politely, a complicated critter. Looked a bit like a scarecrow that had wrestled a badger and lost, then been dressed in whatever the second-hand store happened to be giving away for free that Tuesday. He had this one eye, always twitching like a nervous dog’s tail, and the other one staring off into the distance as if trying to make sense of a particularly perplexing cloud formation. Clem claimed to be a prospector, though the only gold he ever seemed to strike was in the form of fool’s gold, which he’d then try to pass off as the real McCoy to unsuspecting newcomers. He had a knack for tall tales that would make Baron Munchausen blush, spinning yarns about lost cities and mountain lions wearing diamond collars. You’d think a man who lied so liberally would be good at it, but no, Clem's stories were always riddled with inconsistencies, like a sieve full of holes. One minute he’d be battling a grizzly bear with a toothpick, the next he'd be claiming to have taught said bear to waltz. The funny thing was, people believed him, or at least pretended to. I reckon they were just too polite, or perhaps too terrified of what he’d conjure up next if they dared to call him a liar. Clem, bless his simple heart, considered himself a genius. A financial wizard, a scholar of the old texts, and the greatest judge of character this side of the Mississippi. I swear, he could sniff out a potential sucker a mile away. Of course, his own judgement was often as unreliable as a clock with its hands tied, but he never let that stop him. He’d stride around like a king in his own mind, dispensing advice and wisdom like it was going out of style. The man was a walking, talking, self-deluding disaster, but somehow, he managed to charm the rattles off a snake, and in his own peculiar way, he was a downright unforgettable pard.
