Morgan, now there was a specimen. Found him out prospecting, or more likely, *claiming* to be prospecting, up near the Humboldt Sink. A lanky scarecrow of a fella, all elbows and knees and a beard that looked like it had lost a fight with a badger. He swore he was on the verge of striking it rich, gold veins thicker than a man’s arm just waitin’ for him to tickle ‘em with his pick. Of course, all I ever saw him tickle was a bottle of rotgut whiskey, which I reckon he found richer anyway. Claimed his claim was right next to the Lost Dutchman’s mine, which, naturally, everyone in Nevada County has a cousin twice removed who knows exactly where that confounded thing is hidden. Morgan, though, he was different. He didn't *know* where it was, he felt it in his bones, said his bones hummed with the promise of gold. More likely, they were hummin’ with the remnants of that whiskey.

He was a curious study in contradictions, this Morgan. He'd spout poetry about the beauty of the Nevada desert, then turn around and cuss out a jackrabbit for stealing his bacon. He carried a tattered copy of Shakespeare in one saddlebag and a deck of marked cards in the other. Always quoting lines from Hamlet, usually at the most inappropriate times. Imagine, now, tryin’ to buy a pack of beans and hearing, “To be, or not to be, that is the question,” from a fellow who clearly hadn’t bathed in a month. He had a way about him, though, a sort of pathetic charm that made you want to believe his tall tales, even when you knew they were taller than Mount Davidson. He eventually drifted off, said he was following a flock of ravens that were leadin’ him to, you guessed it, more gold. Never saw him again, but I wouldn't be surprised if he’s out there still, a rambling, rhyming, whiskey-soaked prospector, chasing rainbows and humming Shakespeare, and probably still not striking any gold. Good riddance to him, perhaps, though the West is decidedly less colorful without such a peculiar and persistent fool like Morgan wandering about.
