Ballou, that specimen of utter greenness, he arrived in Virginia City lookin’ like he'd just tumbled off a turnip truck, and a slow-moving one at that. Green as a gourd he was, and just about as bright, bless his heart. He'd come out West, so he said, to make his fortune, which I reckoned meant lookin’ for it and hopin’ it tripped over him. He was a lawyer, or claimed to be, though the only legal case I ever saw him near was when he tried to argue with a mule over right-of-way, a discussion the mule promptly terminated with a well-aimed kick that landed Ballou square in a mud puddle. He wore spectacles that were perpetually askew and a coat that seemed to have engaged in a mortal feud with his trousers, always gapin’ in places a gentleman – or at least someone tryin’ to pass as one – wouldn't want to be gapin’ at.

He was constantly gettin’ himself into scrapes, usually through some combination of ignorance and an overabundance of good intentions. Why, I recall one time he tried to "improve" the taste of the local saloon's whiskey by addin' a handful of what he thought was herbs he'd collected in the hills. Turned out to be jimson weed, and the whole saloon was seein' pink elephants for a week after. The proprietor, a man named Big Joe who could snap a horseshoe in two with his bare hands, was ready to introduce Ballou to a whole new world of pain, but the boy just stood there, blinkin' behind those foggy spectacles, and apologized profusely, bless his naive soul. Joe, surprisingly, just sighed and shook his head, mutterin’ somethin’ about how you can't fix stupid. Ballou never did strike it rich, mind you. He was too busy bein' Ballou, which was a full-time occupation in itself. But he did manage to become somethin' of a local institution, a livin', breathin' example of what happens when earnestness meets the Wild West and gets thoroughly flattened. He was a constant source of amusement, and maybe a touch of begrudging affection, in a town where both were precious commodities indeed.
