Ballou, now there's a specimen for the anatomical museum, preserved in spirits, labeled "The Dangers of Unbridled Optimism," or maybe "The Perpetual Tenderfoot." He arrived in Carson City with a carpetbag full of dreams and a constitution apparently forged from the purest, unadulterated ignorance of the realities of the West. Claimed he was a journalist, though the closest he'd likely come to ink was staining his fingers with grape juice trying to write poetry. He had this perpetual grin plastered on his face, brighter than a new tin plate, even when he’d just lost his shirt to a three-card monte artist who probably learned the trade from a sidewinder. 

He fancied himself a miner, naturally. Saw the silver and gold gleaming in his mind's eye, no doubt. He picked a spot near the Comstock Lode that already looked like a badger colony on speed and started digging. Day after day, that poor fool hacked away at the rock, humming some hymn that likely belonged in a church, not a hole in the ground. Never found a thing, of course, except blisters and disappointment. We tried to tell him, Lord knows, the land had been picked cleaner than a buzzard's supper. But Ballou? He just kept smiling and saying, "Patience, boys, patience! The Mother Lode is just around the corner!" I swear, that optimism was thicker than the dust swirling around him.

He even tried his hand at ranching, bless his cotton socks. Bought a few scrawny cattle from a fellow who’d probably sell his own mother for a bottle of rotgut whiskey. Ballou named 'em all, too, with monikers fit for royalty – Lady Guinevere, Sir Lancelot, the whole chivalrous shebang. Problem was, the coyotes knew better stories than Ballou, and soon enough, the "royal herd" was reduced to coyote scat and memories. Yet, there he was, still smiling, still claiming he'd learned a valuable lesson about the, ahem, "delicacy" of western livestock. Some folks just ain't got the sense God gave a goose, and Ballou, bless his heart, was a walking, talking testament to that fact. He’d probably find gold in a chamber pot and still tip his hat to the fella who left it there. The man was a walking, talking paradox, a source of perpetual amusement and a warning to all those thinking of heading West with stars in their eyes.
