Damascus, they call it the "Pearl of the Orient," though I reckon a pearl that's been kicked around by empires for the better part of five thousand years might be more grit than glimmer by now. Still, it's a curious place, this Damascus, a veritable palimpsest written in dust and deciphered with a squint. The streets, mind you, are just narrow enough to scrape the paint off your carriage – should you be fool enough to bring one. And the clamor! A fellow can hardly hear himself think over the calls to prayer, the hawkers hollering about apricots sweeter than sin, and the bleating of goats being dragged, presumably, to a rendezvous with destiny (a sharp knife, most likely). 

I’ve seen more men in flowing robes and elaborate turbans than I've seen folks wearing sensible hats in all of Hartford County. And their coffee! Dark as midnight and strong enough to stand a spoon in, it'll keep you jittery for days. They claim it's an ancient brew, a tradition passed down through generations. Which is all well and good, I suppose, until you're trying to explain to a camel driver that you need to find the American consulate with a vocabulary consisting mostly of gestures and broken Arabic gleaned from a phrasebook. It strikes a body as comical, the way they squabble over politics in the coffee houses and then turn around and invite you to share their dates and tell you about the legendary sharpness of their swords. 

The Damascus steel, you know, the stuff that could cleave a silk scarf in mid-air. I've seen imitations aplenty, of course, shiny trinkets hawked by fellows with a twinkle in their eye and a hand quicker than a Mississippi card sharp. But the real thing? Well, that's another story, and likely a story that will set you back a fair amount of your pocket change and require a good deal of haggling, which, let me tell you, is an art form in these parts, akin to a high-stakes poker game played entirely with smiles and veiled threats. Still, if you've a mind for adventure, a strong constitution, and a healthy disregard for personal hygiene, Damascus is a spectacle to behold. Just be sure to pack your stomach for a rough ride, and maybe a good pair of earplugs for good measure.
