Harris, now there’s a specimen. A man seemingly carved from the very bedrock of predictability, yet capable of surprising you in the most spectacularly mundane ways. He reminded me of that prize-winning pumpkin at the county fair; impressive in its sheer, unadulterated ordinariness. You could set your watch by Harris’s daily routine. Up at precisely six, a breakfast of toast (lightly browned, mind you, any deviation from this standard would cause untold distress), a constitutional stroll around the block, and then off to the office, where he undoubtedly engaged in the thrilling pursuit of… well, I can't quite say what, exactly. I suspect it involved numbers, ledgers, and possibly the quiet, desperate hope that the stapler wouldn't jam.

He possessed a vocabulary that seemed largely culled from pamphlets advertising agricultural implements. "Fine weather we're having," he'd pronounce with the gravity of a Roman senator delivering a decree, even if it were pouring rain and the chickens were taking cover under the porch. And his fashion sense? Let us just say it was best described as "sensible." Think brown shoes, trousers that reached to his armpits, and a hat that appeared to have been personally acquainted with Noah himself.

Yet, bless his heart, Harris also possessed a certain endearing quality. He was earnest, hopelessly so. He believed implicitly in the power of a good handshake and the restorative properties of a cup of lukewarm tea. And there was that one time, that singular, glorious instance when he attempted to waltz at the church social. He resembled nothing so much as a bewildered bear trying to navigate a flooded river, but by Jove, he gave it his all. It was a sight to behold, a spectacle of awkward grace that one wouldn’t soon forget. In short, Harris was a man who proved, if nothing else, that even the most predictable life can harbor a surprising amount of quiet, understated charm, just like a dusty old book that suddenly yields a pressed flower tucked within its pages. A flower that probably hadn't been watered in decades, but somehow, was still stubbornly clinging to life.
