Now, about sepulchres. I’ve seen a few, I reckon, ranging from humble affairs dug hastily in some dusty gulch for a fellow who argued a mite too forcefully with a Colt .45, to those grand, imposing piles of stone and pretension that the Egyptians were so fond of stacking up. The Egyptians, bless their cotton socks, took to dying like nobody’s business, and burying themselves even more diligently. One might think they were trying to hide something, though what a fella could hide in a mountain of rock is beyond my ken. They were ever so attached to their earthly belongings, those Egyptians, stuffing their tombs with everything from cat mummies (enough to make a fella sneeze for a fortnight) to enough gold to buy half of Missouri. Seems a mite wasteful, seeing as how they couldn’t take it with them, not unless they planned on bribing the afterlife customs officials, which strikes me as a proposition fraught with peril. 

Then there’s the more modest sepulchres, the kind a body might find in your average graveyard back home. Little stone houses for the dead, mostly, with the names and dates chiseled in, alongside mournful poems that generally rhyme “dust” with “rust” or some such thing. They do tend to have a certain charm, mind you, especially when overgrown with ivy and inhabited by the occasional stray cat. Gives a fellow a good, solid reminder that life’s a fleeting business, and best not spent arguing over property lines or complaining about the price of corn. It’s all going to end up the same way, after all, six feet under and covered with weeds, unless you’re fortunate enough to afford one of them Egyptian monstrosities, in which case you’ll be surrounded by gold and mummified felines, but still just as dead. The funny thing is, whether it’s a pharaoh’s pyramid or a pauper’s plot, the sepulchre tells the same story: we come, we go, and the earth reclaims its own. Makes a man think, it truly does, though I can’t rightly say what it makes him think *about*. Probably just that he’d rather be having a cold beer on a hot day, and who can blame him?
