Now, concerning these chamois creatures, bless their woolly little hearts! One might be forgiven for thinking they were some sort of mountain goat gone wrong, or perhaps a particularly athletic sheep who’d taken a correspondence course in vertical climbing. They flit about the Alps like naughty children who've discovered the best hide-and-seek spot in creation – a craggy, precipitous place that would send any sensible creature (and most men, too, I reckon) straight into a fit of the vapors. I watched one once, clinging to a rock face with nary a handhold, as if defying gravity itself. He stared back at me, mind you, with an expression that suggested I was the fool for not joining him. Bold as brass, that fellow was!

They say their hooves are specially designed for this mountaineering business, but I suspect a touch of witchcraft is involved. No earthly animal should be able to leap from rock to rock as they do, without breaking a leg, or at the very least, staining their trousers. And stain they would, I imagine, for the landscapes they traverse aren't exactly laundered daily. Brown they are, mostly, these chamois chaps, though they sport a touch of winter white when the snows begin to fall, which is rather considerate of them, really, saving a fellow the trouble of spotting them against a blank backdrop.

The hunters, of course, are less appreciative of their camouflage, what with wanting to bag them for dinner or display them upon the wall. A sorry business, that, pitting man against beast. Though, I confess, I did consider a hat made of chamois leather once. I restrained myself, mind you. Seemed a tad heartless to wear the skin of a creature who had the audacity to outclimb me. Besides, I’m told they smell somewhat gamey when wet. And a hat that smells of damp goat is hardly the path to polite society, is it? Still, admirable creatures, these chamois. Gives a body pause to wonder what other marvels creation has tucked away in the unexplored corners of the world.
