Morgan, you say? Well, I met a feller out in Nevada once, claimed to be related to the whole kit and caboodle of Morgans back east. This here Morgan, though, looked less like a robber baron and more like a jackrabbit caught in a dust storm. Skinny as a rake, teeth like a picket fence after a particularly enthusiastic herd of cattle stampeded through, and eyes that darted around like a hummingbird at a prize-winning petunia patch. He boasted of his inherited wealth, of course, said he was just "out west, sowin' his wild oats" which, judgin' by his general appearance, were mighty puny oats indeed. He fancied himself a prospector, you see, convinced he'd strike it rich any day now. Spent most of his time tryin' to convince gullible saloon patrons to grubstake his latest venture, which usually involved diggin' for gold on land he hadn't even bothered to claim, fueled by a map he swore was "authentic," even though it appeared to be drawn on the back of a slightly used greasy spoon menu with a blunt piece of charcoal.

Now, I ain't one to begrudge a man his dreams, but this Morgan was a special case. He had the Midas touch in reverse; everything he touched turned to fool's gold, or, more accurately, dust and despair. One time, he bought a claim from a feller who swore it was loaded with silver. Turns out, the silver was actually pyrite, and the "claim" was mostly populated by rattlesnakes who resented the intrusion. Morgan emerged from that misadventure lookin' more rattled than the snakes themselves, muttering something about "unforeseen geological challenges." Another time, he tried to raise ostriches, thinkin' he'd make a fortune sellin' their feathers to fancy ladies back in San Francisco. Them birds, bless their pea-sized brains, took a immediate disliking to Morgan, pecked at him something fierce and scattered themselves far and wide, proving that even ostriches possess a more refined sense of business acumen than our protagonist. The last I saw of him, he was headin' south, convinced he'd invented a newfangled contraption for extractin' water from cacti, a feat which, I reckon, would require a miracle second only to turning water into wine. I wouldn't put money on his success, but I'll wager there'll be a whole heap of cacti lookin' mighty relieved.
