Well, I reckon I've seen me some rough towns in my day, and Slade, Nevada, that festering boil on the backside of the desert, she certainly held her own in the depravity department. Picture this: a collection of tents and shacks clinging to the side of a particularly uninviting hill, like fleas on a mangy dog. Dust, enough to choke a buzzard, swirled perpetual through the streets, coating everything in a fine, gritty layer of disappointment. You could cut the air with a knife, thick as it was with the smell of stale whiskey, unwashed miners, and a singular fragrance I can only describe as "general moral decay."

The inhabitants, Lord love 'em, were a sight to behold. Miners, mostly, their faces grim and gaunt from months spent chasing fool's gold in the bowels of the earth. Gamblers, slithering about like snakes in search of a stray chicken. And then there were the ladies, or rather, what passed for ladies in those parts. More paint on their faces than on a newly built house, and enough questionable intentions to sink a battleship. I swear, one time I saw a fella try to pay for a drink with a rattlesnake skin, and the bartender didn't even bat an eye. Just shrugged and said, "Long as it ain't shedding, I'll take it."

Entertainment? Mostly consisted of watching two fellas brawl over a woman who was probably already married to three other fellas, or perhaps observing a donkey trying to climb a saloon wall. I recall one particularly memorable evening where a traveling preacher came to town, hoping to save some souls. He lasted about an hour before a drunken prospector challenged him to a wrestling match for the collection plate. The preacher lost, of course. Said he'd never seen such ungodly tactics in all his born days. Slade, you see, had a way of bringing out the worst in a man, or perhaps, simply revealing what was already lurking beneath the surface. A right charming place, it was. Though, truth be told, I wouldn't want to raise a family there, unless I was particularly keen on my children learning the art of survival from a pack of rabid coyotes.
