The Chamois, bless its nimble, goat-like heart, is a creature of the Alps, though some say they've relatives scattered about in other precipitous places. I, myself, have never ascended those heights to verify, being fonder of a good cigar and level ground. But, I digress. The Chamois, as I've been told by fellers who fancy dangling from cliffs for amusement, is a most peculiar beast. It’s got this quaint little beard, not quite Gandalf-worthy, but sufficient to give it an air of thoughtful contemplation, as if it’s pondering the existential dread of being chased by eagles. Which, knowing eagles, is probably a reasonable dread.

They're said to leap about those mountains with an ease that would make a flea blush with envy. One minute they're seemingly glued to a rock face defying gravity, the next they're gone in a blur, leaving only the faint echo of a yodel and the lingering scent of pine needles. Of course, the locals swear the Chamois can predict avalanches and conjure snowstorms with a flick of its tail. I suspect a bit of exaggeration there, for a creature with such remarkable abilities would be too busy running for office to bother with mountain goat-ery.

And then there's the hide. Ah, the famed Chamois leather! Soft as a baby's sigh, absorbent as a politician's ear, and capable of polishing silver to a gleam that would make a bishop weep with envy. Now, I've never been entirely convinced that the leather one buys in town is, in fact, the product of an actual Chamois. More likely it's some clever imitation involving, say, a particularly docile and tragically misguided sheep. Still, it's a fine thing for dusting one's spectacles or wiping away the tear of mirth that inevitably follows a particularly witty observation. One can only imagine the number of unfortunate Chamois that have sacrificed their hides for the cause of sparkling silverware and crystal clear spectacles! Though, I do suspect those mountain goats have figured out the art of mass production to supply such a high demand, which is a testament to their entrepreneurial spirit, if you ask me.
