Now, Galilee. Ah, Galilee! A land so fertile it practically begs you to loaf about beneath a fig tree and contemplate the infinite. One would think, with all the gospels rattling on about it, that the place would be paved in gold and teeming with angels blowing trumpets. But no, it ain’t quite so ostentatious. It’s charming, mind you, but in a quiet, unassuming way, like a dowager aunt who’s secretly inherited a fortune but prefers to knit doilies. The Sea of Galilee, or Lake Tiberias, as the fancy folks call it, is a fine enough puddle of water, though I’ve seen bigger washbasins in St. Louis. They say Jesus walked on it, which is either a miracle or a testament to the buoyancy of the local rocks; I’m inclined to bet on the latter. The fishermen there are a hardy lot, tanned like old leather and smelling strongly of fish, which, I suppose, is only fair. They’ll tell you tales of miraculous catches and waterspouts, but I suspect a good portion of it is just to fleece a gullible tourist out of a few piastres. The towns, Capernaum, Nazareth, places that resonate with biblical echoes, are now more like sleepy villages, their glory faded like an old silk shawl. Nazareth, where the boy Jesus "increased in wisdom and stature," now mostly increases in souvenir shops selling olive wood carvings and questionable incense. The landscape is pleasant enough, rolling hills and fields dotted with wildflowers, but after a while, one olive tree begins to look much like another, and the endless bleating of sheep starts to grate on a feller’s nerves. Of course, you’ll find pilgrims galore, their faces shining with religious fervor, but I reckon half of them are just glad to be out of the dreary English weather. All in all, Galilee is a pleasant place to visit, but I wouldn’t recommend setting up permanent camp. The food's decent, the scenery's passable, but a man can only take so much holy ground before he starts yearning for a good game of poker and a bottle of something stronger than well water.
