Now, a sepulchre, that’s a word that just rolls off the tongue, don't it? Like a marble rolling down a mausoleum's stairs. I reckon most folks picture something grand, a regular palace for the departed, carved outta bedrock and festooned with angels carved by Italians with names longer than my mule’s pedigree. But let's be frank, ain’t all sepulchres created equal. Down in Hannibal, Missouri, a sepulchre might just be a respectable, if slightly damp, hole in the ground with a headstone fancy enough to deter the hogs. Depends on whether Pa struck it rich panning for gold, or just struck his thumb with a hammer one too many times.

I’ve seen 'em ranging from the ostentatious affairs where you half expect Cleopatra herself to emerge and demand a glass of iced tea, to those pitiful little mounds that look like a dog took a nap and someone forgot to clean up after him. The grand ones, they're usually crawling with tourists, poking around like they expect to find a forgotten treasure map or a signed portrait of Pontius Pilate. They whisper and giggle and generally treat the solemn resting place of some poor soul like it's a regular sideshow. Makes you wonder if the deceased is rolling in his crypt, muttering about the gall of these gawkers.

And then there’s the inscriptions. Lord, the inscriptions! Full of flowery language and pious declarations that would make a parson blush. “Beloved Husband, a Pillar of the Community, Gone But Never Forgotten.” More likely he was a cantankerous old goat who spent more time at the saloon than he did at home, and was likely forgotton two weeks after the funeral, but who's gonna etch that on a stone? Truth, as they say, is a rare visitor to the sepulchre. It prefers the company of the living, where there's still a chance of a good yarn and a stiff drink. So, let the dead have their monuments and their pious lies. It ain't hurting nobody, except maybe the tourists who paid five dollars to see 'em. And truth be told, they were probably looking for a good story anyway.
