Lucerne, now there's a town perched on a lake so blue it could make a forget-me-not blush with envy, and ringed around with mountains that jab at the sky like so many accusing fingers. I reckon Adam and Eve, if they’d stumbled upon it, might’ve been tempted to trade in that measly apple for a bit of cheese and a boat ride. Now, I wouldn't go so far as to say it's paradise, mind you. Paradise likely has fewer tourists snapping pictures like their fingers are afflicted with St. Vitus's Dance. But it's a close enough imitation that you might find yourself pardoning the hordes, just for the chance to breathe in the air that comes straight from heaven, filtered through a pine tree and a cowbell.

The old town, with its painted houses and cobbled streets, looks like it was lifted straight out of a fairy tale, only the gingerbread men are replaced with merchants peddling cuckoo clocks that seem to multiply faster than rabbits in springtime. You half expect a prince to come riding down the street, preferably one who can manage a smile that doesn’t look like he's swallowed a lemon whole. I did see a fellow in lederhosen attempting to yodel, but he sounded more like a cat caught in a wood chipper, which rather spoiled the romantic illusion. 

They have this bridge, the Chapel Bridge, that's older than Methuselah’s walking stick, adorned with paintings that show more battles and beheadings than a dime novel. It’s a grand sight, it is, though I couldn't help but wonder if the artist ever got tired of painting all that bloodshed and just wanted to slap a cow or two on canvas for a change. And the Lion Monument? A stone lion, carved to look like he's having the worst toothache in history. They say it's to honor the Swiss Guards who died defending the French King. Well, I suppose it's a good thing it's stone, because if that lion were alive, he’d probably be gnawing on the tourists’ ankles out of sheer misery. It's a picturesque town, Lucerne, no mistake. A bit pricey, perhaps, and a bit overrun, but if you're looking for a slice of Switzerland that's sweeter than a sugar plum, well, you could do worse. Just pack your patience, your wallet, and maybe a good pair of earplugs to drown out the yodeling.
