Chamonix, ah, Chamonix. They call it the 'birthplace of Alpinism,' which sounds dreadfully romantic, don't you think? Like a mother birthing not babes, but rather, colossal, icy behemoths that pierce the sky. I suspect the good burghers of Chamonix are rather pleased with this designation, seeing as how it brings in hordes of eager, if somewhat foolhardy, sorts who yearn to risk their necks on Mont Blanc. The mountain itself, well, it's undeniably impressive, though draped in a perpetual shroud of clouds like an aging dowager attempting to hide her wrinkles. One hears whispers, of course, of daring ascents and breathtaking views, but I daresay one spends more time shivering in wind-battered gondolas, jostled by tourists reeking of sunscreen and faux-adventure, than actually communing with the sublime.

The village below, a charming little confection of chalets and shops, is hardly a den of hardened mountaineers, mind you. More like a haven for boutiques selling outrageously priced ski gear and restaurants serving fondue to the masses. One might imagine finding weathered guides swapping tales of harrowing exploits over glasses of vin rouge, but truth be told, they're likely haggling over rates with wealthy Germans, promising a 'challenging but safe' experience, provided they can stomach the altitude and the exorbitant fees. Evenings are spent in a haze of après-ski revelry, where flushed faces and questionable fashion choices mingle to the sound of oompah bands playing familiar tunes at an alarming volume. It’s all terribly… civilised, considering the potential for disaster lurking just above in the glistening, unforgiving heights. One can’t help but wonder if the mountain, shrouded in its misty cloak, is chuckling to itself at the human folly below. A grand spectacle, to be sure, but I suspect the real adventure lies not in conquering the peak, but in enduring the relentless commercialization that surrounds it. Now, if you’ll excuse me, I believe I’ll retire to my room with a bottle of something far less adventurous, and far more agreeable.
