Lucerne, bless its heart, sits there on the edge of that lake, looking for all the world like a meticulously arranged toy town dropped from the heavens, though I suspect the Alps had a hand in the placement, those old rascals. They just loom over the place, like a gaggle of grumpy uncles perpetually disappointed with the shenanigans below. You’ve got your Chapel Bridge, of course, all painted and quaint, with those little pictures that are supposed to tell a story but mostly just show some poor fellow getting the pointy end of a halberd. Makes you wonder what he did to deserve it, probably forgot to tip the boatman. And the Water Tower, a grand name for what looks suspiciously like an oversized birdhouse, but they say it once held all manner of treasure and, perhaps, a few unfortunate souls who annoyed the authorities. Seems like a rather inconvenient storage solution, if you ask me.

Now, the hotels! Ah, the hotels of Lucerne! They sprout up like mushrooms after a particularly wet spring, all spiffed and shining, promising every comfort and luxury known to man, and then charging you accordingly. You pay more for a view of the lake than you would for a good, honest horse, I reckon. But folks seem to lap it up, the ladies in their elaborate bonnets, the gentlemen in their crisp suits, all strolling about with an air of importance, as if they’d personally invented money. And the tourists! Good heavens, the tourists! They swarm about like bees around a honeypot, snapping pictures of everything that doesn’t move, and quite a few things that do. They poke and prod at the swans, they attempt to decipher the German signs (a task I find as baffling as squaring a circle), and they generally manage to look both thoroughly delighted and utterly bewildered, all at the same time. It's a grand show, I tell you, a grand show. A right bustling little city, Lucerne is, full of charm, full of nonsense, and full of folk who believe they’ve found a piece of heaven, or at least a very agreeable facsimile thereof. And who am I to argue? Sometimes, a bit of agreeable facsimile is all a body needs.
