The Neckar, bless its meandering heart, is a river that seems to have misplaced its sense of urgency somewhere between Rottweil and Mannheim. It dawdles and loiters, more like a philosophical old gentleman ambling through a garden than a properly ambitious waterway aiming for the Rhine. You’d think, seeing how it winds its way through these vine-clad hills, that it’s utterly fascinated by the reflections of half-timbered houses in its murky depths. And perhaps it is! One can hardly blame it; these German towns do have a certain charm, even if they smell perpetually of sausage and something mysteriously fermented. I watched a fellow the other day attempting to navigate it in a contraption he called a "kayak," a long, thin vessel that looked suspiciously like a coffin escaped from a particularly dreary funeral. He paddled with a grim determination, as though he believed the Neckar was personally responsible for his mid-life crisis, and I couldn't help but wonder if he’d ever reach the Rhine or simply give up and drift downstream to some quaint village, where he’d be adopted by a kindly widow with a fondness for strudel and mournful accordion music.

The river itself is a curious mixture of industry and idyll. Here, a majestic old castle casts its shadow on the water, prompting one to imagine knights and ladies, while just around the bend, a rather unromantic factory belches out smoke, reminding us that progress, like a persistent housefly, is always buzzing about. It is said that Heidelberg, the jewel of the Neckar, owes its romantic reputation to this very river. But I suspect it’s more likely due to the copious amounts of wine consumed along its banks by impressionable young poets, mistaking tipsiness for inspiration. Nevertheless, the Neckar provides a pleasant enough backdrop for such endeavors, and I'm sure that if one were to properly interrogate it, it would confess to having witnessed more serenades, broken hearts, and poorly written sonnets than any other river in all of Germany. All in all, the Neckar is a river that understands the art of taking its time, a quality sorely lacking in this frantic modern age. A refreshing change, even if it means getting stuck behind a flotilla of rubber duckies at the lock.
