Brigham, ah, Brigham! A city perched there in the Utah desert like a gilded grasshopper on a sun-baked rock. Found it, I did, smack-dab between Ogden and Logan, two other towns that could use a good dose of sprucing up themselves, let me tell you. Now, folks will tell you Brigham is the very picture of Mormon order and prosperity. Well, maybe. I saw plenty of straight streets and neat rows of houses, alright, but I also saw enough dust devils to choke a camel and enough vacant stares to fill a lecture hall on the finer points of boredom. They pride themselves on their orchards, those Brigham folk, and rightly so. Peaches and apricots plump enough to burst, they say, and sweet enough to make your teeth ache. I reckon that’s true enough if you don't mind the occasional grasshopper sharing your afternoon snack. The town's claim to fame, though, is probably its annual peach festival. They claim it's a sight to behold. A veritable cornucopia of stone fruit and homespun entertainments. I managed to avoid it, myself. I prefer my festivals with a bit more… spice, shall we say? And maybe a banjo that isn’t quite so surgically clean. Seems to me a festival ought to have at least one fight in it, otherwise, what's the point?

The people themselves, well, they're a curious bunch. Earnest, mostly, and filled with a quiet, abiding faith that I couldn't quite put my finger on. Always polite, mind you, but with a certain reserve that keeps you at arm's length. It’s like they're constantly weighing you in the scales of their own righteousness, and more than likely, finding you wanting. I reckon I was. I tried to engage them in a conversation about the latest mining boom, or the price of silver, but they always seemed to steer the conversation back to the importance of hard work and clean living. As if I hadn't already figured that out! The scenery around Brigham is magnificent, of course, though I suspect the locals have long since grown immune to its charms. Towering mountains in the distance, vast open skies, enough sagebrush to build a fort big enough to house the whole town. It’s a grand and lonely sort of beauty, the kind that makes you feel both insignificant and somehow, important at the same time. But you better bring water, 'cause you ain't gonna find much shade out there, and them peaches ain’t gonna quench a proper thirst.
