Well, I reckon I had to run into them Mormons sooner or later out here in the Great Basin, seeing as how they’ve planted themselves thicker than fleas on a mangy hound dog. Salt Lake City, they call it, and a city it truly is, though built with a curious seriousness that could curdle cream faster than a Sunday sermon. The folks are generally industrious, mind you, no shirking the work, and downright sober fellows, though some say that’s because they've got so many wives to keep an eye on; no time for whiskey when you're policing a harem, I suppose. And about them wives – now there's a rabbit warren of whispers and side-glances to keep a fella entertained for weeks! I haven’t quite figured it out myself. They claim it's a religious calling, multiplying and replenishing the earth, but to my eye it looks like a fella just signed himself up for an eternity of domestic disputes and diaper changes.

They’ve got this scripture, the Book of Mormon, which they swear is Gospel truth, though it sounds like a story spun by a bored prospector after a few too many cups of arnica tea. All about ancient civilizations in America and golden plates and angels, enough to make your head swim. And then there’s the Prophet Joseph Smith, who translated these plates, according to them. A right clever fellow, if you believe the tale, or a first-class humbug, if you don't. I suspect the truth lies somewhere in the middle, like most things.

Now, I ain't one to begrudge a man his beliefs, no matter how outlandish they seem, but their earnestness can be a bit much. Always looking at you with those solemn eyes, like they know a secret you don’t. And they’re always sending missionaries out, young fellas barely out of their teens, knocking on doors and preaching the good word. I nearly choked on my coffee when one of them tried to convert me, a grizzled old codger like myself, to their way of thinking. I politely declined, of course, explaining that I’d already got enough religions of my own to keep me occupied, thank you very much. But all in all, a curious bunch, the Mormons, and a sight to behold, even if you don't quite understand the whole shebang.
