Baden-Baden, they call it, this place of perpetual twilight and questionable cures. One might think, judging by the swarms of frail countesses and portly dukes, that Death himself ran a particularly robust spa here, and clientele flocked hither to cheat him of a final victory. One finds them, you see, draped about the trinket shops, fingering amber necklaces as if they held the very elixir of life, or languishing in the Kurhaus, their faces pale and drawn as if carved from finest, albeit sickly, marble. The air hangs heavy with the scent of sulphur and desperation, a combination not altogether unpleasant, mind you, for it lends a certain piquancy to the otherwise tedious proceedings.

There's the gambling, of course, a pursuit I observed with a detached amusement, much like one would study a colony of ants attempting to build a replica of Notre Dame out of sugar cubes. Men, their faces contorted in a grotesque parody of hope, casting fortunes, or rather, flinging them, upon the green felt altar of chance. And the women! Heavens to Betsy, the women! Bedizened with jewels that could blind a particularly near-sighted buzzard, their gowns rustling with the sound of a thousand dying whispers, they watch the proceedings with an air of practiced nonchalance, though one suspects they are keeping a sharp eye on their husbands' dwindling accounts.

One cannot escape the waters either, naturally. The very raison d'être of this gilded cage. They pump them, they heat them, they cool them, they spray them at you from nozzle contraptions of alarming complexity, all in the name of health. I daresay a good, brisk walk in the fresh air would accomplish as much, but where's the glamour in that? No, one must endure the ministrations of earnest physicians, whose pronouncements are as solemn and incomprehensible as the deliberations of a parliament of owls, and imbibe waters that taste suspiciously like boiled eggs left out in the sun. And yet, one persists. For in Baden-Baden, one is not simply seeking health, but an experience. A performance. A grand, theatrical attempt to defy the inevitable. It's a comedy, I tell you, albeit one with a rather morbid undertone. But isn’t all of life just that?
