Now, Galilee, that's a region with a reputation, alright. Folks seem to think it’s all holy ground and shimmering seas, and, well, it has its moments. I confess, I’ve seen sunsets there that’d make a preacher forget his sermon, painting the Sea of Galilee (a mere puddle, mind you, compared to the mighty Mississippi) in hues of orange and crimson. But between you and me, and the hitchhiking donkey, it’s also a land rife with rocks. Enough rocks, I reckon, to pave the streets of perdition and still have enough left over for a game of skittles with Satan himself. Farmers there, bless their calloused hands, toil and sweat, coaxing figs and olives from soil that seems more inclined to nurture thorns and thistles. You'll be hard-pressed to find a farmer who doesn't have a story about some particularly stubborn rock that refused to yield to plow or pickaxe, acting like it was personally offended by the notion of human cultivation.

The towns? Quaint, they are, in a way that suggests they haven't seen a fresh coat of paint since Noah landed the ark. Tiberias, especially, boasts a certain faded grandeur, like a dowager queen reminiscing about her salad days. And don't get me started on the flies. Thick as thieves, they are, buzzing about like miniature, winged bureaucrats, intent on inspecting every morsel you attempt to introduce to your mouth. One can't help but suspect that they were divinely ordained to keep Galilean pilgrims humble. The natives, bless their hearts, are a hardy bunch, with a laconic wit and a keen eye for a bargain. They'll sell you a "genuine" Roman coin excavated from their very own backyard (which, upon closer inspection, seems suspiciously fresh), but they'll do it with such earnest charm that you'll find yourself parting with your money and thanking them for the privilege. All in all, Galilee is a curious mix of the sacred and the mundane, the beautiful and the bedraggled, a place where miracles may have once occurred, but where a good mule and a sturdy pair of boots are still the most valuable assets a traveler can possess.
