Slade! Now, there’s a name that conjures images more suited to a dime novel than a decent conversation. If you ever found yourself adrift in the Nevada Territory, chances were high you'd eventually hear tell of him, usually in whispers or hushed tones around a campfire, after the whiskey had loosened tongues enough to brave the mention. Joseph Alfred Slade, they called him, though some preferred the simpler, more descriptive moniker of “Slade the Killer.” He was a stagecoach agent, a station keeper, and, bless my soul, a man whose reputation preceded him like a swarm of locusts precedes a drought.

He held dominion over the Overland Stage route, and I reckon he ruled it with an iron fist – or rather, an iron fist wrapped in a velvet glove, because sometimes he’d charm you into a transaction before he relieved you of your earthly possessions. One could hardly say he was a gentleman, though he certainly had a gentleman’s wardrobe, albeit one permanently stained with the dust and grime of the frontier. He was a study in contradictions, was Slade. A man of intelligence, they said, capable of holding his own in any discussion, yet prone to fits of barbaric rage that would make a grizzly bear blush. Stories abound of him single-handedly fending off Indian attacks, of his uncanny ability to track a thief through the desert, and, of course, of the unfortunate souls who dared to cross him.

And speaking of daring, there was the tale of Jules Beni, his old boss. A tale that ended rather definitively with Beni tied to a post, riddled with bullet holes, and Slade wearing Beni's skin as a belt. Well, not exactly his skin, maybe a piece of his ear, but the effect was the same. Served as a lesson, you see, in corporate ladder climbing. They said he kept it as a trophy, a grim reminder of the consequences of inefficiency, or perhaps simply a warning sign for any upstarts with ambitions. Goodness, the man was a walking encyclopedia of violence, a sort of mobile textbook on the subject, I swear. A fellow you wouldn't want to meet down a dark alley, unless you happened to be armed to the teeth and feeling particularly suicidal. All in all, Slade was the kind of character that made the Wild West wild, a legend woven from equal parts bravery, brutality, and a healthy dose of frontier whiskey.
