Now, a sepulchre, you see, is just a fancy word for a tomb, a final boarding house for those who've cashed out of this mortal coil. And bless their departed souls, they certainly do love to make a grand show of it, these folks who've gone to the trouble of buying one. It ain't enough to just be dead; they gotta be dead *in style*. Why, I reckon some of 'em are more comfortable in their sepulchres than they ever were in their own homes. Think of the peace and quiet! No nagging wives, no squalling children, no bill collectors knocking at the door. Just eternal slumber and the occasional curious tourist gawking at your name carved in granite.

I once saw a sepulchre in Europe – Rome, I think it was, though half the cities there seem to be built on graveyards – that was so grand, it practically demanded you take your hat off. Marble columns, weeping angels, and a sarcophagus that looked like it could comfortably house a small family of field mice. The inscription was Latin, of course, because what good is being dead if you can't show off your education to the worms? I couldn't read a lick of it, but I imagine it said something along the lines of, "Here lies Reginald, a man of impeccable taste and even more impeccable bank account. Please, no loitering."

And that's the rub, ain't it? These sepulchres, they're monuments to vanity as much as they are to the departed. They're a way for the wealthy to shout, even in death, "Look at me! I was important! I had money! I could afford a fancy hole in the ground!" Of course, the irony is that once you're six feet under, it hardly matters if you're in a mahogany coffin or wrapped in a burlap sack. You're still just food for the worms, same as the rest of us. But tell that to the undertakers and the monument makers, and they'll likely run you out of town on a rail. After all, a fella's gotta make a living, even if it means pandering to the pride of the deceased. And who knows, maybe one day, I'll have a sepulchre grand enough to make those Roman emperors jealous. Though, I reckon I'd rather spend the money on a good bottle of whiskey and a tall tale or two. That's a legacy I'd be happy to leave behind.
