Heidelberg, they call it a university town, and perhaps it is. But if so, the university must be a haven for idlers and dreamers, or perhaps a finishing school for the well-heeled fellows who’ve already finished all that truly needed finishing. For the main industry, it seems, is not the pursuit of knowledge, but the artful consumption of it – chiefly in liquid form, dispensed from flagons in cavernous beer halls. One can scarcely take three steps without tripping over a student, bedecked in ridiculous ribbons and caps, warbling a song of questionable taste and even more questionable accuracy. They strike a most peculiar pose, these young scholars, chests puffed out, proclaiming their allegiance to some obscure brotherhood or another, all while spilling perfectly good beer down their vests. It’s enough to make a sober man weep, I tell you, to witness such carefree dissipation.

The castle, perched precariously above the town like a tipsy dowager wearing a crumbling crown, is a grand old ruin, to be sure. The very air around it whispers tales of emperors and sieges, of courtly love and uncourtly brawls. One could almost feel the ghostly presence of long-dead knights clanking their way through the shattered halls, if not for the overwhelming aroma of grilled bratwurst emanating from the vendors below. The grounds, though overgrown with romantic weeds and conveniently placed benches for melancholic contemplation, are thronged with tourists, each one clutching a guidebook and attempting to capture the perfect photograph of a partially destroyed tower. They squint, they pose, they jostle for position, all to obtain a fleeting glimpse of something magnificent that is, alas, also rather broken. It’s a comical spectacle, this fervent devotion to decay. And yet, even in its disrepair, even amidst the throng, Heidelberg possesses a certain undeniable charm. It’s a charm born not of pristine perfection, but of glorious imperfection, a kind of beautiful, tipsy imperfection that I find, frankly, rather endearing. Especially after a flagon or two myself.
