Now, this Coliseum, mind you, isn't some flimsy, fly-by-night affair put up by a carpenter who'd rather be sawing wood. No sir, this is a proper, imposing beast of a building, built by fellows who knew a thing or two about permanence – and likely had a few slaves to help them achieve it. They say it held fifty thousand souls, though I suspect that’s like saying a river is a mile wide; nobody’s actually measured it, they’ve just taken a look and figured it’s close enough. All those souls, packed tighter than sardines in a tin, all hollering and carrying on about some spectacle or other.

And what spectacles they were! Lions and tigers and bears, oh my! Though I daresay the bears were probably more like mangy mutts with delusions of grandeur. Gladiators hacking and slashing, although I suspect more than a few were hoping for a swift death rather than a hero's welcome. Chariot races where you could bet your last drachma on which lunatic would crash the most spectacularly. It was all a grand show, a right proper circus, except instead of peanuts and popcorn, they served up blood and guts. One can't help but wonder what it says about a society that prefers its entertainment with a liberal dose of dismemberment, but I reckon humans have always had a peculiar fondness for a good, old-fashioned carnage.

And the Emperors, bless their tyrannical hearts, they sat up in their fancy boxes, giving thumbs up or thumbs down like they were deciding whether to order ham or mutton for supper. All that power, resting on the whim of a bored potentate. Makes you think, doesn't it? Still, I suppose it kept the riff-raff entertained and out of mischief, and that's something, isn't it? Though, personally, I think they could have used some comedians. A good joke would have done more to settle the nerves than all the bloodletting in Rome, or failing that, they could at least have sold decent lemonade. I reckon a few clever folks made a killing selling stained togas though, what with all the excitement.
