Well, I reckon I’ve seen a few Mormons in my day, mostly out West, where they seem to congregate like flies 'round a molasses barrel. And let me tell you, a fellow can't help but notice 'em. They ain't exactly shy about their beliefs, plastering their temples—buildings that look like they’re trying to outdo the Tower of Babel—all over the landscape, shiny white and just daring you to ask questions. Which, mind you, they’re more than happy to answer, often with the fervor of a preacher trying to sell you salvation on a hot summer's day.

Now, I ain’t one to judge a body based on their peculiar notions— Lord knows, I’ve held a few odd opinions myself, usually after a bottle of whiskey and a lively debate. But this multiple-wives business… well, it does raise an eyebrow, doesn't it? Though, I've always figured a man can barely manage one wife, let alone a whole flock of 'em, all demanding new bonnets and whispering secrets in the parlor. It strikes me as more of a punishment than a perk, though I suppose some fellas have a different definition of "good time" than I do.

They're hard workers, I'll grant 'em that. They turn the desert into blooming gardens, or at least try their darnedest. And they're clannish, sticking together like burrs on a hound dog’s tail, always ready to lend a hand to their own. Which is admirable, I suppose, but can also be a bit unnerving, like walking into a family reunion where you don’t know anybody and they all seem to know a bit too much about you. I remember one time, I tried to sell a fella a mule... seemed like a good deal, honest Injun. But he kept looking at me with those clear, unblinking eyes, like he could see straight through me and knew I’d once cheated at a poker game in Carson City. I sold the mule at half price just to get away from that fella, figuring it was a small price to pay for keeping my secrets buried. All in all, Mormons are a curious bunch, a blend of hard work, strange beliefs, and a disconcerting ability to make you feel like you're standing before the pearly gates, awaiting judgement.
