The Neckar, you see, is not one of those vulgar, boasting rivers, throwing itself about and roaring like a distressed cow, no, it's a modest, unassuming little thing, content to meander along like a contented farmer on his way to market, never in any particular hurry and always stopping to admire the scenery, which, if I'm being honest, is mostly just more of the same green stuff. Folks around here call it picturesque, which I suppose it is, in the way that a neatly swept barnyard is picturesque compared to a pigsty. One can admire the tidiness, but one wouldn't necessarily hang a painting of it in one's parlor.

Now, the Neckar does have its moments, bless its little heart. There's the occasional castle perched precariously on a cliff, looking for all the world like it's about to sneeze and tumble right into the drink. And the vineyards, oh, the vineyards! Row upon row of grapes, clinging to the hillsides like desperate gossips clinging to the latest bit of scandal. They produce a wine here that, well, let's just say it's an acquired taste. It’s not exactly the nectar of the gods, more like the diluted prune juice of a slightly cranky deacon. I suspect half the reason these Germans sing so loudly is to drown out the memory of the last swallow.

And then there are the towns that hug the riverbanks, each one vying to be more quaint and utterly charming than the last, and succeeding admirably, mostly because the one before it set the bar so confoundedly low. They all have their half-timbered houses leaning into each other like old men swapping stories, their cobblestone streets, guaranteed to turn an ankle if you're not paying attention, and their general air of having been asleep for the last three centuries. One can’t help but wonder if they planned it that way, or if it just sort of...happened. Still, it makes for a pleasant enough distraction, I suppose, until the next thunderstorm rolls in and sends everyone scurrying for cover like frightened squirrels. Then the Neckar puffs itself up a bit, swells with pride, and pretends to be a real river for a day or two, before meekly returning to its role as a charming, if somewhat bland, backdrop.
