Galilee, bless its heart, is not what one would call a bustling metropolis. No sir, not by a long chalk. Why, if you were to fire a cannon down the main street of Nazareth, the echoes might be the only sign of life for a good half hour, save for maybe a stray donkey startled out of its midday nap. They call it the Holy Land, which I suppose it is, if you have a particular fondness for rocks and dust and the occasional olive tree clinging gamely to a hillside like a drowning man to a splinter of wood. The Sea of Galilee, though, that’s a different proposition altogether. A body of water big enough to drown all the sorrows of the world, and likely has tried to, judging by the glum faces of the fishermen hauling their nets. They say the fish are plentiful, and maybe they are, but I suspect they’re the sort of fish that only a starving man would consider a delicacy.

One hears tell of miracles performed on its shores, and I wouldn't put it past the locals to have a hand in embellishing the stories a tad. Why, I met a fellow who swore he saw a man walk on water, but after sharing a bottle of the local wine with him, I suspected he’d sooner see pink elephants tap-dancing on the waves. The hills around the lake are brown and barren, save for a smattering of wildflowers that seem to have wandered in by mistake. The villages are small and dusty, and the people are hardy and weathered, looking as though they’ve been carved from the very stone that paves their streets. They’re friendly enough, though, if a bit wary of strangers poking about with notebooks and odd notions. They’ve seen their share of empires rise and fall, and I imagine they’ve learned to take everything, including miracle-mongers and touring Yankees, with a healthy grain of salt. All in all, Galilee is a place of quiet contemplation, a place to reflect on the past, and perhaps to wonder why anyone in their right mind would choose to build a vacation home there. Unless, of course, you have a particular fondness for rocks, dust, and the occasional skeptical donkey.
