Now, about this portier. It ain't something Eve would ordinarily give a fig about, seeing as we lived in the Garden of Eden, where doors were less a necessity and more of a…well, let’s just say architectural curiosity. You could stroll naked as a jaybird through the whole dang place and never run into a locked room, or a nosey neighbor for that matter. But now, post-apple incident, things bein’ different and all, I can see the use of such a thing. Especially if it's stout and keeps out them infernal drafts that snake around in the night, tryin’ to give a body the rheumatiz.

I seen one t’other day over to Abel's place. Not that I was snooping, mind you. Just paying a neighborly call, like. But this portier, it was a sight to behold. Made of somethin’ akin to animal skin, though smoother and softer than any critter I’ve ever had the pleasure (or displeasure) of wrangling. It hung there all majestic, like a king on his throne, blocking the chill wind from rushing in every time Abel opened his hovel. Abel, he called it 'protection' against the elements. I call it fancy, myself, though I didn't say that to his face, he's already high strung about that whole 'lamb' business.

And it weren't just protection from the wind, neither. It was covered in stitching. Yes, stitching, fancy like flowers and beasts. It was supposed to 'add beauty' to the home, Abel said, trying not to sound too proud. Beauty? Well, I suppose a body could find beauty in anything these days, even in a thick slab of animal hide hanging in the doorway. Personally, I prefer the beauty of a ripe peach dangling from a tree. But that's just me, a simple woman with simple tastes. Though I ain’t gonna lie, I pondered whether such a thing might keep the serpent out. I considered trying it on the entrance of the cave, as Adam is forever complaining about mud on the floor. But then again, maybe it would just invite more snakes to come admire the pretty embroidery. It seems like a rather useless decoration that has a practical use, and a practical thing that has a decorative use. A mix of both, which sounds like a terrible idea and a great idea all rolled into one. Like marriage, I suppose.
