Harris, now there's a specimen to catalog for the natural historian, or perhaps the museum of curiosities. He’s one of those fellows who strides through life with the serene confidence of a man who's just discovered the secret to brewing ambrosia, even if that ambrosia turns out to be warmed-over ditchwater. Why, I recall one summer afternoon, baking hotter than a griddle in Hades, when Harris decided he would single-handedly repair the leaky roof of his cousin’s pigsty. Now, Harris ain't no carpenter, mind you; his talents lie more in the realm of reciting long, tedious poems at inappropriate social gatherings and offering unsolicited advice on matters he knows less about than my cat knows of celestial navigation.

He perched himself upon that roof like a philosophical crow, armed with a hammer that weighed more than his common sense and a handful of shingles that appeared to have been chewed on by squirrels. Every swing of the hammer was accompanied by a pronouncement – a lecture on the proper angle of the nail, the superior quality of his tools (bought, I suspect, from a travelling salesman who looked suspiciously like a fox), and the general ineptitude of all other roof-repairing endeavors in the county. The pigs below, meanwhile, offered a running commentary in the form of snorts and grunts, which, I daresay, contained more wisdom than anything escaping Harris’s lips. By the time the sun began to dip behind the hills, painting the sky in shades of apricot and disappointment, the roof was in a worse state than before, and Harris was nursing a bruised thumb and a spirit that had somehow managed to remain unbowed. He declared it a "valiant effort," though the only thing valiant about it was the pigsty's continued resistance to complete collapse. He then proceeded to regale anyone within earshot with the heroic tale of his afternoon’s labors, omitting, of course, the part where the shingles ended up looking like a shattered mosaic and the pigs had taken to wearing bits of roofing felt as avant-garde headgear. Yes, Harris, a man who could find a silver lining in a raincloud of pure misfortune, and then try to sell it to you at twice the going rate. A truly remarkable individual, he is, in his own uniquely disastrous way.
