Winters in Nevada, bless their frosty little hearts, are a peculiar beast, altogether unlike the fancy, powdered-sugar affairs they boast about back East. You won’t find no carolers with rosy cheeks and steaming mugs of cocoa here, unless, of course, you count a coyote howling a mournful tune at the moon after accidentally chewing on a snow-covered tumbleweed. That’s about as festive as it gets, and I reckon the coyote’s wishing he’d stuck to jackrabbits. No sir, our winter is a sort of protracted argument between the sun and the wind, with the wind usually winning, I might add. That wind, she's a regular banshee, shrieking down from the mountains with a spitefulness that'd make a mother-in-law blush. It’ll scour the paint right off your cabin and leave your whiskers frozen stiff enough to use as kindling.

You see fellas bundled up tighter than mummies, faces grim and set, battling their way through streets where the snow ain't that pristine, glistening fairytale, but rather a muddy, gravelly mess that clings to your boots like a lovesick dog. And the cold! Why, it seeps right through your bones and lodges in your marrow, whispering wicked little notions of giving up and moving south to bask on some fool beach. You might think a fella could find some solace in a nice, warm fire, but even that's a battle. You're chopping wood like a madman, trying to convince the damp logs to cooperate, and the smoke just seems to laugh in your face as it curls back down the chimney. And then, just when you think you've conquered the elements, the roof springs a leak and you're awakened at 3 a.m. by a drip, drip, drip that's colder than a banker's heart. Yes sir, winter in Nevada is a test of fortitude, a trial of patience, and a grand opportunity to contemplate why you ever thought settling in this godforsaken desert was a good idea in the first place. But still, I wouldn't trade it for all the warm, cozy winters back East. Makes a man appreciate a patch of sunshine and a good cup of coffee like nothing else can.
