Ah, Naples! A city that makes a body think he's wandered into a theatrical performance, and not one of the high-toned Shakespearean sort, mind you, but a boisterous, unscripted, improv extravaganza staged by the gods themselves, and perhaps a few mischievous devils thrown in for good measure. Imagine, if you will, streets teeming with life, not the orderly, polite life one might expect in, say, Boston, but a life lived aloud, with horns a-blaring, vendors a-bawling, and arguments erupting with the regularity of Vesuvius itself. The buildings lean upon each other for support, as if they've all had a nip or two of the local wine, and the laundry strung between them forms a colorful tapestry overhead, a veritable flag of cheerful disarray.

One might think such chaos would be off-putting, and to be sure, there are moments when a fellow longs for a bit of quiet contemplation, perhaps in a soundproof coffin. But there's a charm to it all, a certain infectious energy that grabs hold of you and shakes you awake. The Neapolitans, bless their hearts, possess a talent for making the simplest of tasks seem like a grand occasion. Why, watching a man sell tomatoes is an entertainment in itself, complete with dramatic gestures, impassioned pronouncements on their ripeness, and a general air of operatic intensity. The food, of course, is another spectacle entirely. Pizza, my friends, pizza as it was *meant* to be, cooked in wood-fired ovens and devoured with a fervor that borders on religious ecstasy. And don't even get me started on the seafood! It's so fresh, it practically leaps from the plate and slaps you in the face with its ocean-y goodness. Though, be warned, should you inquire too closely about the origins of said seafood, you might find yourself embroiled in a tale involving midnight fishermen, daring escapes, and a shady character named Enzo who "knows a guy." But that, dear reader, is all part of the Neapolitan adventure, a story best experienced firsthand, with a healthy dose of skepticism and a good bottle of Lacryma Christi to wash it all down. You'll leave either utterly enchanted or thoroughly bewildered, but I dare say you won't be bored for a single blessed minute.
