Ah, Harris. Bless his simple heart, if there ever was a heart more easily bamboozled, I have yet to encounter it. A fellow of exceeding good intentions, to be sure, but a man whose brain, if one were to be honest, seems to operate on a principle quite separate from the laws governing the rest of humanity. He’s the sort that could chase a butterfly into a quicksand bog and emerge hours later, covered in mud and mosquito bites, convinced he’d had a grand adventure. I recall one expedition—a fishing trip down the Thames, mind you, hardly a Himalayan trek—where Harris insisted on packing a complete blacksmith's forge, “just in case.” Said he'd once seen a fish swallow a horseshoe whole, and one had to be prepared. Of course, the forge weighed a ton, nearly sank the boat, and remained, mercifully, unused. But try telling Harris he was being excessive! You might as well argue with a brick wall.

And then there was the time he attempted to hang a picture. One simple, unassuming picture. It began innocently enough, with Harris striking a nail into the wall with the force of a small earthquake. Then, he realized the picture was crooked, naturally. So, he adjusted it, which involved knocking the nail entirely through the plaster and leaving a hole big enough to house a family of field mice. Then came the swearing—oh, the glorious, colorful swearing! It was a vocabulary lesson in itself. Followed by a lengthy argument about the proper angle for the picture, punctuated by the near destruction of a chair and the accidental painting of the dog purple. Finally, hours later, the picture was hung, still crooked, but at least it no longer threatened the structural integrity of the house. One might have thought he would learn, but no. Harris, bless him, will tackle the next picture with the same unwavering faith in his own abilities, and the same inevitable, calamitous results. He's a walking disaster, a well-meaning catastrophe, and yet, somehow, one can't help but find him utterly, endearingly...Harris.
