Now, Galilee. A right quaint little patch of earth, it is, nestling up there in the northern parts of the Holy Land like a babe in swaddling clothes, albeit a rather sun-baked and dusty babe. They call it Galilee of the Gentiles, a sort of spiritual dumping ground where your Phoenicians and Syrians and whatnot, who haven’t the good sense to be proper Jews, mingle and muddle things up something fierce. Mind you, there’s a certain charm to the chaos, like a flea market on a Sunday morning, where you might stumble upon a priceless artifact amongst the chipped chamber pots and questionable pickled herring.

The Sea of Galilee, well, it ain’t exactly an ocean, more like a large puddle with delusions of grandeur, but picturesque enough, I suppose, if you’ve a taste for that sort of thing. They tell tales of storms a-brewing and fishes a-leaping, and of a certain itinerant preacher who walked upon its surface, which I, being a man of the world, naturally accept with a grain of that very salt one might find along its shores. The towns about, Capernaum and Bethsaida, aren't exactly bustling metropolises, more like sleepy villages where the most exciting event of the week is when old man Zebedee catches a particularly stubborn mullet.

The hills, they’re not much to brag about either, being mostly barren and dusty, though I dare say a goat would find them a veritable paradise. But the people, ah, the people of Galilee. They're a rustic bunch, a bit rough around the edges, but with a certain honesty about them that you don’t find in the polished hypocrites of Jerusalem. They speak with a curious accent, they do, a broad, almost comical dialect that would have your Pharisees sneering into their phylacteries. But they’re hardworking, these Galileans, and they’re not afraid to speak their minds, which, in that part of the world, is a quality rarer than a honest tax collector. So, Galilee, a land of contradictions, a mixture of beauty and barrenness, simplicity and strangeness, a place where the extraordinary might just be lurking beneath the ordinary, just waiting to surprise a skeptical traveler like myself. And surprise me it did, though whether pleasantly or not, that’s a tale for another time.
