Well, sir, Pard was a sight to behold, a regular walking spectacle that would make a buzzard blink twice. He weren’t much to look at physically, mind you. Kind of a spindly chap, like a young sapling that got stunted from lack of sun, with a face that resembled a topographical map of Death Valley – all gullies and crags. But it was his manner, his *joie de vivre*, as the Frenchies say (though I reckon Pard wouldn't know French from a hog call), that set him apart. He moved through the world like a dog chasing a runaway wheelbarrow, full of enthusiasm and just about as much control.

He claimed to be a prospector, which translated roughly to "sitting around on his backside, picking his teeth with a rusty nail, and dreaming of gold." I never saw him find a single nugget bigger than a pea, but he could spin a yarn about the mother lode that would make a seasoned liar blush. He’d describe veins of gold so thick you could pave streets with 'em, mountains of silver that gleamed brighter than the sun, all just waiting for him to stumble upon them. And he’d deliver these tall tales with such earnestness, such conviction, that you’d almost believe him, even while knowing full well he was probably exaggerating more than a mosquito at a nudist colony.

Pard possessed a peculiar genius for getting himself into comical scrapes. He once tried to pan for gold in a creek that turned out to be the local livestock watering hole. Let me tell you, there’s nothing quite like witnessing a grown man scrambling out of a muddy puddle while being glared at by a dozen disgruntled cows. And then there was the time he bought a "genuine" map to a lost Spanish mine from a feller who looked suspiciously like a traveling snake oil salesman. The map, of course, led him straight into a rattlesnake den, and Pard came out faster than a greased pig at a county fair, with more bites than a plate of flapjacks at a lumberjack convention. But even after all that, Pard would just dust himself off, grin that lopsided grin of his, and declare that tomorrow, by thunder, was going to be his lucky day. That Pard, he was an original, alright. A harmless, lovable fool, and a constant source of amusement in a town that didn’t have much else to laugh about.
