Well, now, these chamois creatures. They do strike a body as being a bit over-dramatic, if you ask me. Prancing about them alpine meadows like they own the place, all puffed up with their importance. I reckon Eve herself would have appreciated their knack for posing, always striking some majestic silhouette against the craggy peaks, as if auditioning for a plaster saint's statue. But bless their cotton socks, they’re also perpetually alarmed, aren't they? One minute they're nibbling away at some tough-looking vegetation, looking for all the world like they're contemplating the mysteries of the universe, and the next, some imaginary terror sends them bounding off like a greased flash of brown fur. 

It's quite a sight, I'll admit. A whole herd of them, those little goat-antelope hybrids, leaping and scrambling up impossibly steep slopes with a grace that would make a mountain goat envious. You half expect to see them sprout wings and take flight. Makes one wonder if they’re not descended from angels who took a wrong turn somewhere, and ended up hoof-deep in snow instead of paradise. But then, you remember that paradise, according to Adam, was mostly just hard labor and fruit that could get you into a heap of trouble. So maybe the chamois got the better deal after all, swapping boredom for the occasional avalanche and a lifetime supply of panoramic views. 

And then there's their horns. Tiny little hooks, curled backwards towards their ears, looking for all the world like someone sewed them on as an afterthought. Not like those grand, sweeping antlers you see on a proper stag, no sir. These are more like misplaced commas, punctuating the absurdity of their existence. They're like nature's reminder that even the most graceful creatures have a bit of the clown in them. Yes, the chamois, they're a right peculiar lot, aren't they? A little bit majestic, a little bit ridiculous, and a whole lot of wild. Just the kind of creature to make you scratch your head and wonder what in tarnation Mother Nature was thinking when she dreamed them up.
