Gibraltar, bless its diminutive, sun-baked soul, is a sight to behold, ain't it? A veritable pimple on the backside of Spain, a geological wart daring to stick out its chin at both continents and declare itself a kingdom, or at least a very tenacious colony. They call it “The Rock,” and a rock it is, a monstrous chunk of limestone seemingly tossed there by some disgruntled giant during a particularly heated game of quoits. Now, I've seen my share of rocks, both in their natural state and artfully arranged into the facades of mansions that owe far more to borrowed money than honest toil, but this one… well, this one has a story. It’s riddled with tunnels, like a Swiss cheese designed by military engineers with a fondness for gunpowder and a profound distrust of foreigners. And those foreigners! A polyglot crew of soldiers, sailors, merchants, and undoubtedly a few scoundrels all crammed together, speaking a bewildering blend of English, Spanish, and what I suspect is pure Gibraltarian invention. One could easily get the notion that language itself is being besieged, desperately holding out in a linguistic Alamo against the encroaching forces of clarity and reason.

The monkeys! Ah, those Barbary apes, they are the true rulers of this roost. Legend has it, when the monkeys leave, so shall the British. A clever bit of political maneuvering there, dangling the fate of an empire on the whim of a troop of furry primates with a penchant for pilfered peanuts and posing for photographs. One is forced to admire the ingenuity, even if it borders on the absurd. I swear I saw one fellow, decked out in a miniature naval uniform, barking orders at a gaggle of tourists. Perhaps he was reviewing his troops, or perhaps he was merely reminding them that they were trespassers on his simian kingdom. Either way, the spectacle was worth the price of admission, even if the admission was merely a carefully guarded banana. All in all, Gibraltar is a most curious concoction. A blend of the grand and the preposterous, the historical and the hoggish (speaking of the aforementioned apes, naturally). It's a place where you can contemplate the sweep of empires whilst simultaneously dodging the droppings of a cheeky monkey. A perfect paradox, you might say, and one well worth the price of a steerage ticket and a healthy dose of skepticism.
