Harris, bless his heart, was one of those fellows seemingly designed by Providence to be a perpetual source of mild amusement, or perhaps a more accurate term would be a low-grade, simmering exasperation. He possessed the unerring ability to get things precisely, gloriously, and utterly wrong, all while radiating an air of absolute confidence that would make a seasoned mule balk. Why, I recall one sweltering afternoon, we were attempting to assemble a contraption, a new-fangled water pump if I remember correctly, acquired with considerable expense and a good deal of optimism. The instructions, naturally, were penned by a German, which is to say, they were less instructions and more a philosophical treatise on the inherent complexities of manipulating inanimate objects. Harris, however, took one look at the diagram, puffed out his chest, and declared himself a born engineer. What followed was an hour of such frenzied activity, such a whirlwind of misguided zeal, that the pump ended up resembling less a device for drawing water and more a sculpture crafted by a drunken blacksmith. There were misplaced cogs, misaligned pipes, and a general air of chaotic disarray that defied description. He insisted, mind you, that it would all work “just fine,” right up until the moment we actually attempted to activate the infernal machine. The result, I needn't elaborate, involved a geyser of muddy water, several near drownings, and a ruined Sunday hat. Harris, naturally, remained unfazed. He just stood there, dripping and beaming, declaring it a “minor setback” and suggesting we try oiling it with bacon grease. It was then I realized that Harris was not merely incompetent, he was a force of nature, a walking, talking calamity perpetually poised to unleash absurdity upon the world. And yet, you couldn’t help but like the feller. There was a certain guileless charm to his ineptitude, a kind of innocent delight in the face of utter failure, that made you forgive him, even as you mentally calculated the cost of the damages. Yes, Harris was a trial, a tribulation, and a constant source of mild irritation, but life, I suspect, would be a darn sight duller without him.
