Slade, that desolate blot on the map betwixt Salt Lake and Carson City, well, I reckon the Lord must have plumb forgot about it when He was handing out the scenery. It ain't a town, precisely, more like a collection of shacks clinging to the alkali dust like ticks on a mangy hound. We stopped there, me and young Hawkins, figurin' to water the horses and buy a dram or two to lubricate our throats, which were dryer than a Mormon sermon. Found a place callin' itself the "Grand Emporium" – grand it weren't, less grandeur means a leaky roof and a proprietor whose smile looks suspiciously like he's tryin' to conceal a missing tooth.

The inhabitants! Lord have mercy. A fellow can see more life in a graveyard. There was a gaggle of gents sittin' on overturned barrels outside the Emporium, watchin' the tumbleweeds go by with the intensity of prospectors watchin' for gold. One feller, leaner than a sidewinder after a long winter, had a rifle across his lap and a look in his eye that suggested he'd shoot a buzzard for sport. Hawkins whispered to me, "Uncle Mark, I reckon these here fellers are plumb bored." I allowed as how he might be right, though I figured bored men with rifles was a bit like mixin' whiskey and gunpowder. Bound to be some sort of explosion eventually.

We purchased our drams, the whiskey tasting vaguely of turpentine and regret, and listened to the Proprietor drone on about the latest excitement in Slade, which consisted of a dog fight and a rumor that someone saw a jackrabbit wearing a hat. I swear, you could hear a pin drop in that saloon, though I suspect the only pins in Slade were holdin' together the dilapidated clothing of its residents. We drank quick, paid our dues, and legged it out of there faster than a politician dodging a promise. Left Slade in our dust, and I ain't exaggeratin' when I say that little speck of civilization (and I use the word loosely) disappeared from view none too soon. Would rather spend a week stranded in Death Valley than another hour in that place. Some towns are just made for leavin', and Slade, bless its miserable little heart, is champion of 'em all.
