Now, pard, about these pard-ners. You'd think, bein' a man in the wild west with his very existence hangin' on the next sunrise, that findin' a companion in this here venture would be easier than fleecin' a greenhorn at a faro table. But no, sir, turns out human nature is a prickly cactus indeed, and folks are about as easy to rope as a greased piglet. I mind old Silas, who declared himself my pard after I pulled him, not so gently, out of a mudhole one spring mornin'. He was all gratitude and oaths of loyalty then, mind you, swore we’d be thick as thieves till Judgment Day. Turned out “thick as thieves” meant he felt entitled to half my beans, a comfortable spot by the fire, and all the easy chores, while I did the heavy liftin' and chased down runaway mules. Said he was compensatin' for bein’ 'physically challenged' on account of that mudhole incident, which, if you ask me, was just a fancy way of sayin' he developed a fondness for sittin'.

Then there was young Jebediah, full of piss and vinegar and ambitions grander than the Sierra Nevada. He was all for prospectin' and discoverin' the lost motherlode. I warned him, I did, that gold was a fickle mistress, prone to leadin' men into all sorts of foolishness, like dry gulches and starvation. But he wouldn’t listen, seein' himself already a millionaire with a string of fancy ladies clingin' to his coattails. Last I saw of Jebediah, he was headin' toward Death Valley with a burro and a fool's grin, convinced he was three days away from strikin' it rich. Probably bleached his bones white by now, poor sap. So, yes, pard, findin' a real pardner, one that’s reliable, honest, and shares the burden of life without complainin’ like a teething baby, is about as likely as findin' a genuinely honest politician. You might think you found one, but just wait until the chips are down and the wolves are howlin'; that's when you truly learn who's wearin' the honest face, and who's just wearin' a mask made of pure, unadulterated hogwash.
