Now, this here Portier, as they call him, is a curiosity, ain't he? A sort of human tapestry, draped across the threshold of respectability and good sense. I encountered the fellow just the other day, him standing at the entrance to that fancy establishment, the "Gilded Lily," a place so pretentious it likely charges extra for the very air you breathe. He was decked out like a peacock who'd lost a fight with a velvet curtain, all in purples and reds, looking more like a stage prop than a genuine human being. Said he was there to "manage the flow," which I reckon meant deciding who looked like they had enough money to be fleeced on the inside. 

He had this peculiar habit of scrutinizing folks with a gaze that could curdle milk, sizing 'em up like a butcher eyeing a prize pig. And Lord, the airs he put on! He spoke in a voice so smooth it sounded like buttered eels sliding down a marble staircase, full of "May I inquire?" and "Your patronage is most esteemed." I swear, he made asking to enter a building sound like a royal decree. One poor fella, dressed just a bit rough around the edges, was turned away quicker than a thief at a revival meeting. Portier, with a barely concealed sniff, uttered something about the dress code being "somewhat less than accommodating" and the man shuffled off, looking like he'd just been told his dog had run off with the preacher.

I watched him for a spell, this self-appointed guardian of the gate, and it struck me as mighty funny. Here was a man, likely getting paid a pittance to play God with other people's evening plans. And they, bless their silly hearts, were letting him. They'd straighten their ties, adjust their bonnets, and offer up their best smiles, all hoping to pass muster with this fellow. The whole thing was a grand farce, a comical dance performed on the doorstep of delusion. It makes you wonder, doesn't it, what sort of magic we let a fancy coat and a smooth tongue work upon us? Makes you wonder if there ain't a better way to spend an evening than trying to impress a man who probably irons his own shoelaces.
