Ballou, now there’s a specimen for ye, a regular curiosity from the vineyards of ignorance and self-importance. He came West, did Ballou, with nary a lick of sense and a trunk brimming with notions fit only for a tenderfoot’s Sunday sermon. He imagined himself, bless his heart, to be a prospector, a silver baron in the rough, practically seeing the glittering veins of fortune running beneath every tumbleweed. I reckon he even packed a monocle, though I never saw him sport it; probably feared the damn thing would shatter from sheer bewilderment at the landscape. He bought a mule, a swaybacked, cantankerous beast named Penelope, and the two of them were a study in mutual misunderstanding. Ballou would try to coax her along with flowery language, quoting poetry he'd likely misremembered, while Penelope would just fix him with a look that said, “Partner, you wouldn’t know a silver dollar from a pancake.”

He could spend an entire afternoon arguing the merits of various geologic formations with a jackrabbit, convinced he was on the verge of a monumental discovery. Of course, said discovery invariably involved a particularly interesting patch of dirt or a strangely shaped rock, nothing that’d excite a flea, let alone a financier. The man had a nose for delusion, alright, if not for dividends. I recall one scorching day, he announced he’d struck a mother lode of sapphires, brandishing a handful of what turned out to be chunks of broken bottle glass, all the while swearing they possessed a “luminescence hitherto unseen by mortal eyes.” I nearly choked on my coffee, I tell you, the fella was that sincere. But you couldn't fault him for lack of effort. He labored hard, sweated even harder, and remained blissfully unaware of his own spectacular ineptitude. In a place where grit and cunning were currency, Ballou offered optimism and a vocabulary that'd make a professor blush. He was a walking, talking contradiction, a reminder that even in the harshest corners of the West, there was room for a bit of harmless absurdity, a space for a man to chase a dream, no matter how foolish, and do it with a smile and a truly spectacular lack of success. He might have left empty-handed, but he left us with stories, and in this business, that’s sometimes richer than silver.
