The thing of it is, Adam never did appreciate a proper portiere. You see, back in Eden, privacy wasn't so much a virtue as it was an inconvenience. What need have you of a draped curtain, heavy and velvetine, when you’ve naught to hide but your altogether, and the only eyes that gaze upon it are those of your befuddled mate? Bless his heart, he thought fig leaves were a perfectly acceptable substitute for a damask weave. A flimsy defense against the Serpent’s sly glances, if you ask me. A portiere, now, THAT is a statement. A declaration, if you will, that behind this swathe of embroidered whatnot lies something worth keeping to oneself, be it a secret sorrow, a nascent vanity, or merely a yearning for a moment's peace and quiet away from the endlessly fascinating, yet thoroughly tedious, chatter of the feathered folk.

Imagine, if you will, the possibilities! Adam, fresh from naming the rhinoceros (a task he took far too seriously, might I add), could have retreated behind a magnificent portiere of woven grapevines, shutting out the cacophony of the parrots squawking about the latest fashion in plumage. I could have slipped behind a tapestry depicting, oh, perhaps the unfortunate incident with the pomegranate (a much better story than he ever gave it credit for) to contemplate the intricacies of embroidery without his incessant commentary on its lack of practicality. "Eve," he'd drone, "why spend so much time stitching when we could be… well, I'm not entirely sure what we *could* be doing, but I'm certain it would be more useful than creating a picture with thread." Men, honestly. They haven't the slightest appreciation for the finer things. A portiere, after all, is more than just a curtain; it's a boundary, a suggestion, a silent invitation to intrigue. And believe you me, dear reader, life with Adam could have used a generous helping of intrigue. But alas, no portiere. Just fig leaves and the endless, sun-drenched monotony of paradise. No wonder I took a shine to that serpent. At least he understood the art of a good entrance, and the allure of the forbidden lurking behind a well-placed deception.
