Well, I swan, here I sit, perched upon this precarious crag like a jaybird with a sore foot, observing these...creatures. They call 'em chamois, these goat-antelope contraptions, and the name fits 'em like a Sunday suit on a mud hen. They're all angles and awkwardness, seemin' to defy the laws of gravity and good sense with equal fervor. One minute they're clamberin' up a sheer rock face, all four hooves clinging like ticks on a hound dog, and the next they're leapin' across a chasm that would make a seasoned mountaineer soil his britches. You'd think they were possessed by a squadron of spry devils, or maybe they’re just tryin’ to outrun the echo of their own bleatin', which, let me tell you, ain't exactly the serenade of angels.

They sport coats of brown wool, suitable for concealing themselves amidst the rocks and scree, though I suspect even a blind man could spot one of 'em from a mile off when they're kickin' up dust like a runaway threshing machine. And those little, hooked horns? Bless their hearts, they wear 'em like they're auditioning for a part in a devil's opera, all haughty and self-important. You'd think they were conductors of a celestial orchestra instead of just ornery mountain goats, chewin' on thistles and posin' for some unseen landscape painter.

They’re a right curious bunch, these chamois. I reckon they’ve seen more sunrises than most men have hot suppers, and they carry themselves with a certain air of seasoned detachment, as if the affairs of the world below are no more consequential than a flea circus in Constantinople. They remind me a bit of those old codgers back home who sit on the porch swing all day, smokin’ corncob pipes and watchin’ the world go by with a knowing glint in their eyes, convinced they’ve seen it all and ain’t particularly impressed. Only these chamois are watchin' the world from a perch three thousand feet higher, and I imagine they're even less impressed, seein' as how most of what they see is just more rocks and sky. Still, they’re alive, ain’t they? And breathin’, even if it is through a nose that looks suspiciously like it was designed by a committee of drunk tinkers. And for that, at least, I suppose they deserve a tip o’ the hat.
