Ballou, now there was a specimen. A fellow lawyer, mind you, fresh off the boat – metaphorically speaking, unless you count the stagecoach from back East as a maritime vessel. Arrived in Virginia City lookin’ like he’d swallowed a dictionary and was tryin’ to regurgitate legal precedents. Hair slicked flatter than a pancake on a griddle, spectacles perched on his nose like a couple of frightened grasshoppers, and a frock coat so new it squeaked when he moved. He figured he'd make a fortune defendin' miners and such. Bless his heart.

He reminded me of a tenderfoot tryin' to ride a bucking bronco – all flailing arms and desperate attempts to appear in control when everyone knew he was just hangin' on for dear life. His knowledge of the law was prodigious, I grant him that. He could quote Blackstone and Kent until the cows came home, but he couldn't tell a gold nugget from a chicken bone. And his legal strategies? Well, they were about as effective as tryin' to stop a stampede with a feather duster. He'd argue points so fine, so ethereal, that the jury would be asleep before he even got to the meat of the matter.

One time, he was defendin' a fella accused of horse thievin'. Ballou, instead of focusin' on the alibi (which was flimsy at best, mind you), he started arguin' about the proper definition of "horse" in the eyes of the law, citing ancient Roman statutes and whatnot. The judge, a grizzled old prospector who'd seen more justice served with a Colt Peacemaker than with a law book, finally interrupted him and said, "Mr. Ballou, are you tellin' me that this ain't a horse that was stolen? Cause if you are, you're wastin' my time and this jury's, who are probably hungry." Ballou, bless his heart, just blinked at the judge and kept on goin'. Naturally, his client ended up enjoyin' a scenic tour of the gallows. I felt a bit sorry for the fella, but mostly I was just amused by Ballou's utter inability to adapt to the realities of the Wild West. He was a good man, I suppose, just tragically miscast. A legal scholar in a land where the law was mostly what you could get away with.
