Now, Morgan, there was a specimen. You wouldn’t think to look at him, all skin and bone stretched taut over a frame that looked like it was pieced together from old wagon parts and rusty stovepipes, that he’d be worth a tinker’s damn. But Lord, that man could smell gold where others smelled only sagebrush and despair. He arrived in Virginia City looking like he’d wrestled a particularly disgruntled burro and lost, his clothes torn, his boots missing a sole, and his eyes haunted with a hunger that wasn't just for grub. He claimed to be a geologist, but I figured him more likely a fellow who’d studied the insides of saloons more than the insides of rocks. Still, he had a glint in his eye, a calculating sort of twinkle that suggested he knew something the rest of us didn’t, and in those days, knowing something, *anything*, could get you richer quicker than a greased pig at a county fair. 

He started poking around the Comstock Lode, not in the fancy-pants mining offices, mind you, but out in the dust and heat, muttering to himself like he was conversing with the ghosts of prospectors past. He’d chip away at rocks with a little hammer that looked like he’d whittled it himself, squinting at the fractures and veins like a myopic buzzard sizing up its dinner. Folks snickered, called him “Old Fossils,” and figured he was just another tenderfoot come to the silver fields to lose his shirt. But Morgan, he just kept on, oblivious to the jeers, driven by some inner clock that only he could wind. Then, one day, by Jove, he struck it rich. Not just rich, mind you, but stinking, wallowing-in-it rich. He found a new vein, a veritable geyser of silver, so pure and plentiful it made the Comstock Lode look like a ditch filled with fool's gold. Suddenly, "Old Fossils" became “Mr. Morgan," and the same fellas who'd been laughing at him were tripping over themselves to shake his hand and ask him his opinion on the proper way to brew coffee. That's the West for you: respect comes cheap when it’s plated in silver.
