Galilee, bless its heart, is not quite what the Good Book, or rather, what the zealous preachers back home, led me to expect. One pictures, from their breathless descriptions, a veritable Eden, bursting forth with figs fat enough to feed an army and grapes so plump they practically leap into your mouth, already fermented into a fine wine. Instead, one finds a landscape pleasing enough, mind you, rolling hills and that Sea, which isn't much of a sea at all, more of a glorified, albeit historical, pond. The colors, while vivid enough for the locals, lack that certain "oomph" one associates with divine provenance. I saw more impressive sunsets on the Mississippi, I dare say, and those didn’t claim to be blessed by the Almighty Himself.

The towns, Nazareth included, are a bit… rustic, let’s call it. One expects a certain grandeur, a touch of celestial polish, given their weighty role in the Greatest Story Ever Told. But no, they're just dusty collections of stone houses, crammed together like so many grumpy old men at a town meeting. The natives, bless their souls, are hospitable enough, if you can stomach the relentless bartering. They'd haggle over the price of a dead camel, I suspect, even if the camel in question was a gift. And the flies! Good heavens, the flies are a plague of their own. I reckon they missed that part in the Bible, about turning water into wine, and focused instead on perfecting the art of fly-breeding.

But, despite the lack of ethereal fireworks and the abundance of buzzing nuisances, there is something about the place. A quiet dignity, perhaps, or maybe just the lingering echo of momentous events. You can stand on the shore of that "sea," squint into the sun, and almost hear the murmur of a crowd listening to a sermon. You can almost imagine a fisherman, tossing his nets, unaware he's about to be plucked from obscurity and made a disciple. Almost. Then a fly buzzes in your ear, a vendor tries to sell you a chipped clay pot for the price of a gold brick, and the spell is broken. Still, one can't help but feel that something extraordinary happened here, in this unassuming corner of the world. Even if it happened a good while back, and the land has since become a bit… over-run with flies.
