Chamonix, you say? Why, it’s a place so steeped in grandeur, it practically sneers at the notion of modesty. Imagine, if you will, a valley carved deeper than a politician's promise, hemmed in by mountains so arrogant they poke holes in the very fabric of the sky. Mont Blanc, bless its snowy peak, lords over the scene with all the smug self-assurance of a cat who's just swallowed the canary, the canary being, of course, the entire lower Alps. The village itself, a collection of charmingly ramshackle chalets, clings to the valley floor like a lovesick vine to a crumbling wall. One expects, upon entering, to be greeted by a troupe of yodeling dwarves and a St. Bernard brandishing a miniature barrel of brandy. Alas, one mostly encounters tourists, laden with Gore-Tex and cameras, snapping pictures as though Mont Blanc might spontaneously combust should they fail to capture its magnificence.

And speaking of tourists, they come from every corner of the globe, each convinced they are the first to discover the sublime beauty of the place. You see them puffing and panting up the Brevent, their faces the color of overripe tomatoes, all in pursuit of that perfect panoramic vista. They ride the Aiguille du Midi cable car, a contraption that seems held together by little more than hope and a prayer, and emerge at the top with eyes wide and breath stolen, ready to pronounce Chamonix the eighth wonder of the world. The local merchants, bless their industrious souls, capitalize on this wide-eyed awe with the subtlety of a foghorn. Souvenir shops bulge with miniature Matterhorns and cuckoo clocks, all guaranteed to remind one of their harrowing ascent and exorbitant expenditure. And the restaurants! Oh, the restaurants! They offer fondue at prices that would make Croesus weep, and enough cheese to pave a small nation. But one mustn't complain too loudly. After all, one is in Chamonix, breathing the rarefied air, gazing upon the eternally snow-capped majesty, and paying through the nose for the privilege. It's a grand show, indeed, a spectacle so utterly ridiculous and breathtakingly beautiful that one cannot help but be utterly charmed, even as one quietly suspects the whole affair is a grand, elaborate hoax perpetrated by a particularly clever mountain.
