Ballou, now there was a specimen fit for Barnum's museum, though perhaps a bit too lively to be pickled in a jar. A fella of perpetually optimistic disposition, he was, or at least pretended to be. He hailed from, if my memory serves, some forgotten corner of New England where they still churned butter and believed in fairies. Out West, that kind of innocence was like bringing a butter churn to a gunfight – utterly useless, but darn amusing to watch. He fancied himself a lawyer, Ballou did, though I never saw him argue a case beyond convincing a saloonkeeper to extend him credit, which, by the way, he never repaid. He possessed the singular talent of attracting misfortune like a magnet draws iron filings. A walk down a perfectly paved street for Ballou inevitably involved a tumble into an open sewer or a collision with a runaway stagecoach. It wasn’t malicious misfortune, mind you, just the garden variety, everyday calamity that follows some folks like a persistent debt collector.

He joined our little prospecting venture, convinced he'd strike it rich quicker than a greased pig could escape a butcher. His contributions, however, leaned more towards comedy than capital. He’d trip over his own feet while panning for gold, sending precious dust scattering to the wind. He once mistook a particularly ornery badger for a playful puppy, resulting in a bite that sidelined him for a week. But you couldn't stay mad at Ballou. He possessed a certain infectious charm, a blithe disregard for his own ineptitude that was somehow endearing. He was a walking, talking disaster zone, yes, but a strangely comforting one. He reminded me of those old prospectors who searched for gold so hard they spent their entire lives blind to the precious metal surrounding them. Ballou wasn’t finding gold, but he was finding something else, something rarer in these parts. A way to laugh at the world, and, perhaps more importantly, at himself. And in a place like this, a little laughter was worth more than all the gold in California.
