Lucerne, now there's a place to lose yourself in, though not in a bad way, mind you. It's not like getting turned around in the trackless woods or something that drastic. More like getting deliciously lost in the sheer pleasantness of the thing. Why, the mountains practically lean in to whisper secrets to the lake, and I wouldn't be surprised if that lake was a-listening, too, with its calm, guileless surface. I did see a goose, though, that looked suspiciously like it was eavesdropping, so one must be wary. They’re sneaky creatures, those geese, I tell you. The town itself? Well, it's all quaint bridges and painted facades, the kind of architecture that makes you want to take up painting even if you haven't the faintest talent. And the Chapel Bridge! Now, that's a rickety contraption, I wouldn’t trust it too much, but it's got those paintings, like little peep-shows into the past that might or might not have actually happened. I overheard a fellow American arguing about the authenticity of said paintings with a local, bless his misguided heart. He might as well have argued with a cow about the theory of relativity, it was a lost cause from the start. But the Swiss, they just smile that knowing smile of theirs and nod, like they’ve seen it all before – which, most likely, they have. You get the feeling they could tell you the real secrets of those paintings if they felt like it, but they ain’t in any hurry to spill the beans. The air there, too, it's different. Crisp and clean, the kind of air that makes you think you could climb Mount Rigi on a whim. I didn’t, of course. I observed this inclination from the comfort of a lakeside cafe, nursing a cup of something that smelled suspiciously like melted chocolate and felt like heaven on a cloudy day. But I could have! That’s the point. Lucerne makes you feel capable, even if your most strenuous activity involves pointing at a passing swan and proclaiming it “rather dashing.” One does find oneself indulging in such pronouncements, I confess, in a place like that. It's the altitude, you see, it loosens the tongue and adds a touch of whimsy to the soul.
