Chamonix, they call it, a village clinging to the skirt of Mont Blanc like a particularly tenacious burr. I went, of course, drawn by the siren song of the sublime, though truth be told, I suspect I was also enticed by the prospect of out-hustling some Swiss sharper at the gaming tables. The air, ah, the air! Bracing, they declared it. I found it more bracing to the bank account after the initial flurry of equipment purchases. Crampons, ropes, axes – one could furnish a small war with the apparatus required to merely contemplate a stroll up the nearest glacier.

The mountains themselves, however, are a sight to behold, even for a jaded fellow such as myself. Great hulking brutes of granite and ice, they loom over the valley, seemingly daring you to try your luck against their imperturbable grandeur. And try they do! A veritable ant colony of brightly clad souls scurries about, ascending and descending, some with the grim determination of prospectors, others with the buoyant optimism of utter fools. One fellow, I overheard, was planning to "connect" with the mountain, apparently through the medium of interpretive dance. I confess, I kept a discreet distance from that spectacle.

The natives, as is their wont, have become adept at exploiting the fervor of the adventurous. Every other establishment seems to offer "Extreme Experiences" or "Death-Defying Adventures," the descriptions escalating in hyperbolic grandeur with each passing year. Naturally, the reality rarely matches the brochure. I overheard one poor soul complain that his "Death-Defying Adventure" consisted of a particularly steep donkey ride and a soggy cheese sandwich. But the mountains! They have a way of making even the most mundane experiences feel…well, slightly less mundane. And besides, the wine is excellent, and the view from the terrace makes even a losing hand at cards a tolerable affair. One can’t help but think that even Eve herself would have traded a bite of that apple for a sip of good French vin, perched atop that magnificent valley. It makes one ponder the meaning of existence, that’s for certain… or perhaps it’s simply the altitude. Either way, I found myself surprisingly content, even amidst the inevitable blunders and misplaced bravado that seem to thrive in such a place. Yes, Chamonix. It’s a curious place, indeed.
