Heidelberg! Ah, a town that clings to the Neckar River like a lovesick maiden to a soldier’s coat-tail. One expects, naturally, a certain gravity from a university town, a hushed reverence for dusty tomes and the mumbled pronouncements of frock-coated professors. And, to be sure, there are such specimens to be found here, shambling about with the air of men who’ve misplaced their spectacles and their good sense in equal measure. But bless me, if Heidelberg doesn’t also possess a riotous, almost indecent, charm. The streets, paved in cobblestones that appear to have been laid by a drunken giant, wind and twist with a mischievous glee, as if deliberately designed to confound the stranger. One expects to be deposited at any moment in front of a beer garden, a happenstance I confess occurred to me more than once, or perhaps even twice, during my admittedly brief sojourn. 

The castle, now, there's a ruin of a magnitude to inspire even the most hardened cynic. Perched atop the hill, it looks as though some mischievous titan, after a particularly spirited drinking bout, decided to hurl stones at it in a fit of pique. One can almost hear the ghostly laughter of those roistering knights, their echoing tankards clinking a timeless toast to revelry and folly. Below, the town unfolds like a miniature stage set, with its red-tiled roofs and quaint, half-timbered houses huddled together for warmth against the romantic chill. And the students! Such a lively, colourful bunch, flaunting their feathered hats and flamboyant waistcoats. They are ever ready to launch into a chorus of some German drinking song, and as unconcerned about the propriety of singing in broad daylight as a cat is about the price of milk. One finds oneself almost wishing to be young and foolish again, just to join in the merriment, though I daresay my aging bones would protest vehemently at such exertion. Heidelberg, you see, is a place that tempts one to throw caution to the wind and embrace the joyous absurdities of life. Though, naturally, one ought to keep a firm grip on one’s purse, for those Heidelberg students, bless their hearts, seem to have a talent for parting a man from his coin.
