Higbie, ah, Higbie. Now there was a specimen! A human curiosity, like a two-headed calf at a county fair, only slightly less appealing. He was a man possessed of more bluster than bullion, more enthusiasm than enterprise, and more hair oil than common sense. You could hear him coming a mile off, his voice booming like a defective cannon, usually expounding upon some get-rich-quick scheme involving either silver mines that existed only in his imagination or a revolutionary method of extracting gold from seawater that somehow always remained conveniently untested. He was always on the verge of striking it rich, Higbie was, perpetually balanced on the precipice of fortune, only to be invariably tripped up by the cold, hard reality that fortune rarely cares for bluster and usually requires a bit of honest sweat.

He fancied himself a ladies' man, too, Higbie did, though his idea of courting involved copious amounts of hair pomade, a vocabulary liberally sprinkled with flowery, outdated phrases, and a general air of oily desperation that would send even the most desperate saloon girl running for the hills. He wore clothes that were perpetually too tight, too bright, and perpetually stained with something unidentifiable – possibly the residue of one of his failed gold extraction experiments. He was a font of misinformation and tall tales, each one more preposterous than the last, delivered with an absolute conviction that would make a seasoned poker player green with envy. He'd spin yarns about encounters with grizzlies, daring escapes from hostile Indians, and secret treaties with mythical creatures, all delivered with a straight face and a twinkle in his eye that suggested he believed every word of it, or at least enjoyed the sheer audacity of the performance. And yet, despite all his foibles and follies, you couldn't help but feel a certain affection for the old coot. He was a harmless rogue, a walking, talking advertisement for the power of optimistic delusion, a reminder that even in the harsh realities of the West, there was still room for a good, old-fashioned buffoon.
