Baden, ah Baden! They call it Baden-Baden, as if mentioning it only once might be an oversight of grievous proportions. A place so relentlessly Baden it feels like the very air hums with the word. It is a town where the forest creeps so close, one might imagine the trees themselves are merely masquerading as upstanding German citizens, secretly plotting to reclaim their verdant domain. And the people! Such paragons of health and tranquility they are, or at least, that's the charade they’re all putting on. One can't help but suspect they’re each harboring a secret longing for a good, robust brawl, or perhaps just a decent, greasy sausage, instead of another helping of boiled asparagus and mineral water. They all stroll about with that pious look in their eye, convinced that the very stones underfoot are imbued with healing properties. I reckon they'd be healthier with a good hard laugh, though one rarely hears more than polite tittering unless Herr Schmidt drops his monocle into the communal fountain.

The baths, of course, are the main attraction. One sits about, stewing like a plum in a pot, surrounded by more naked humanity than a fellow ought to encounter before breakfast. Each bather convinced that the foul-smelling, lukewarm broth is somehow purging their system of accumulated wickedness and dyspepsia. I daresay it’s just leaching out the dye from their overly-starched linen. And the gambling! Ah, the Casino. A gilded cage for foolish birds who believe that fortune is blind and easily manipulated. I watched a fella lose his entire fortune there the other evening. The man was so distraught he threatened to throw himself in the river Oos. I tried to dissuade him, pointing out the water was probably full of more mineral salts than river water and wouldn't be any good for a proper drowning. He wasn’t amused. Baden, you see, is a place where even death must be done with decorum. A most peculiar place, indeed. A place where the pursuit of health and happiness seems to involve a great deal of suffering and a distinct lack of genuine cheer. One wonders if it’s all just one grand, elaborate joke being played on the rest of the world. And if it is, I suspect Baden-Baden is in on the punchline, and they’re not about to share it.
