Genoa, bless its heart, is a city that seems to have been designed by a committee of particularly opinionated seagulls and a handful of Renaissance architects who’d all partaken a bit too freely of the local wine. Imagine, if you will, a landmass thrown at the coast like a discarded handkerchief, crumpled and folded into a riot of narrow alleys, each one seemingly designed to confound the tourist armed with his map and his earnest desire to see the birthplace of Christopher Columbus (who, I suspect, would have heartily approved of such confusion, seeing as how he himself got rather lost on his little jaunt to, well, wherever he thought he was going). The buildings, crammed together like gossiping old women at a church social, lean upon each other for support, their facades painted in shades that range from a cheerful, if slightly faded, yellow to a mournful, sea-weary green. Balconies, festooned with laundry flapping in the breeze like celebratory flags of surrender to the forces of humidity, overhang the streets, threatening to drop a stray sock or a particularly damp undershirt upon the unsuspecting passerby. One half expects a particularly portly gentleman to emerge from a window in his nightshirt, demanding to know what all the racket is about. 

And the racket! Ah, the racket is a glorious cacophony of scooters buzzing like angry hornets, fishmongers hawking their wares with the enthusiasm of operatic tenors, and the constant murmur of a Ligurian dialect that sounds suspiciously like an argument, even when pleasantries are being exchanged. The harbor, meanwhile, is a sight to behold, a jostling collection of fishing boats, ferries, and the occasional rather opulent yacht, all vying for space and attention like children squabbling over a piece of candy. The scent of salt air mingles with the aroma of pesto – invented here, naturally, because what else would you expect from a city so determined to leave its mark on the world, even if that mark is just a persistent garlicky breath? One could spend a month wandering these twisting streets, getting gloriously lost and utterly charmed, emerging finally with a sunburn, a pocketful of sea glass, and the distinct feeling that one has just participated in a particularly elaborate and delightful practical joke.
