Now, concerning these Mormons, a feller could write a book, and some have, though I reckon most of 'em were drier than a week-old biscuit in the desert. I saw 'em, you understand, back in the Territories, thick as fleas on a mangy hound dog. Salt Lake City, their grand Jerusalem, a sight to behold, mind you – neat rows of houses, gardens bursting with more vegetables than a fella could shake a stick at, and a tabernacle that could swallow Jonah's whale whole. Industrious folk, no denying that. Though, I confess, the whole polygamy business gave me the fantods. Brigham Young, now there was a rooster! A whole henhouse of wives, they say, and looked like he enjoyed every last clucking one. A fella couldn't help but wonder how he kept 'em all straight. Did he have a secretary just for scheduling supper with Mrs. Young the Fifth and a playdate for the Young the Twelves’ offspring? I expect it required the organizational skills of a general and the stamina of a mule.

Of course, the Gentiles, as they called anyone not of the faith, were forever sniffing around, accusing them of all sorts of wickedness, most of it fueled by rumor and envy, I suspect. Seemed like a lot of 'em were just plain jealous of the Mormons' prosperity. Made for interesting gossip, anyhow. And these missionaries! They had this earnest gleam in their eye, that could convince you that sunshine was made of milk. They'd preach the Book of Mormon with such fervor you’d think they'd personally witnessed the whole shebang. A fella could almost believe it himself, until he remembered he had a perfectly good Bible back at the cabin, and besides, a man can only handle so much earnestness in one sitting. But take it from me, those Mormons, they were a piece of work. A peculiar institution, a thriving colony, and a perpetual source of bewilderment and amusement for the rest of us. Though, I always figured, if a man wanted to believe in golden plates and angels, well, who was I to argue? There was stranger stuff happening out West every day.
