Higbie, now there was a specimen. A man put together, seemingly, with spare parts and a whole lotta afterthought. He wasn't much to look at, mind you; lean as a snake that’s just swallowed a canary, face like a relief map of the Nevada desert, and a nose that had clearly lost a wrestling match with a mule. But don't you go judgin' a book by its cover, especially not when that book is Higbie. See, appearances, they can be deceivin'. Underneath that exterior of weathered hide and general disrepair resided a heart of fool's gold and a mind as convoluted as a prospector's claim after a stampede.

Higbie was a talker, oh, he could talk the ears right off a jackrabbit. And what tales he'd spin! Claims of lost mines richer than King Solomon's, encounters with Indians who were practicially wearin' dinner jackets, and exploits so daring they made Kit Carson look like a stay-at-home mama. Most folks figured he was embellishin' a tad, maybe even a whole lot. But you couldn't help but listen. Higbie had a way with words, a talent for takin' the mundane and turnin' it into somethin' grand and outlandish. He'd describe a dust storm like it was the wrath of God, and a bad hand of cards like it was the fall of Rome.

Now, Higbie wasn't exactly blessed with the Midas touch. In fact, he seemed to be allergic to prosperity. Whatever scheme he got mixed up in was destined to fail, and fail spectacularly. You'd think he'd learn his lesson after the third or fourth botched gold mine or ill-fated livestock venture. But no, Higbie was an optimist, a firm believer in the power of tomorrow and the next harebrained idea that popped into his head. He'd pick himself up, dust himself off, and declare, with a twinkle in his eye, "Well, boys, that was just a warm-up. I got a feelin' this next one's gonna be a real honey." And then, of course, it wouldn't be. But that didn’t matter. Higbie was proof that a man could be wrong a thousand times over and still find a reason to face the sun with a smile, a story, and a brand new way to lose his shirt.
