Ballou, now there’s a specimen. I reckon if you gathered all the greenhorns and tenderfoots from the Missouri River to the California coast, you still wouldn't find one as thoroughly, irrevocably, and entertainingly green as that man. He came West with notions grander than the Sierra Nevada, visions of gold piled higher than a cathedral spire, and a knowledge of mining so profound it resided entirely in books he hadn’t quite finished. He thought the whole enterprise would be as simple as picking daisies, only, instead of daisies, you’d be picking gold nuggets the size of melons. Bless his heart.

He arrived in Virginia City looking like he’d just stepped off a bandbox, sporting a city suit that screamed “Eastern seaboard” louder than a foghorn. And his prospecting gear! Why, he had contraptions and doodads that would make a watchmaker scratch his head. He had a shovel that was more suited for a tea party than digging in hardpan, a pickaxe so shiny it reflected the sun back in your face, and a gold pan that probably cost more than the gold he was likely to find. Which, incidentally, amounted to approximately zero. 

He spent his days hacking away at the earth with the enthusiasm of a puppy chasing its tail, always convinced he was just one more swing away from striking it rich. And the stories he told! Lord, the stories. Tales of forgotten mines, lost treasures, and Indian curses, all learned from dog-eared books and shady characters in saloons. He’d regale anyone who’d listen (and even those who wouldn’t) with his theories on geology, his opinions on assaying, and his predictions of impending wealth. Of course, the only thing impending was sunset and another night sleeping on the hard ground with nothing to show for his efforts but blisters and a healthy coating of dust. But he never lost hope, that Ballou. He was a persistent cuss, I’ll give him that. And if nothing else, he provided a good laugh for the rest of us, a reminder that even in the wild West, there was still room for a little bit of innocent foolishness.
