Lucerne, they call it, though why they couldn't stick with the perfectly sensible "Luzern" I ain't precisely sure, unless it’s for the benefit of them foreigners who mangle the Queen's English worse than a butcher hacks a side of beef. A quaint little place it is, nestled right snug 'gainst that Lake Lucerne, which is itself so picturesque it looks like some artist fellow painted it from a postcard. Now, I've seen beauty before, mind you, but this here beauty is the sort that makes you suspicious. It's too perfect, too polished, like a preacher's smile after he's emptied the collection plate. You half expect to find a stagehand behind one of them mountains, pulling the strings. 

And the people? Bless their starched collars and politely bland faces. They're all so… Swiss. Precise, punctual, and perpetually looking like they're balancing a ledger in their heads. I never saw a Swiss fellow cut loose and holler, though I reckon they must do it sometime, maybe down in some secret underground bunker where they keep all that gold they’re rumored to be hoarding. The Chapel Bridge, now that's a sight, a covered wooden walkway adorned with pictures that'd make a Sunday school teacher blush. They're painted with scenes of heroism and religious fervor, sure, but also a fair bit of plague and execution. A right cheerful bunch, them old Swiss painters were. 

The Lion Monument, a carved rock depicting a dying lion, is meant to commemorate Swiss Guards killed during the French Revolution. It's a powerful thing, no doubt, but it struck me as just a touch dramatic. I mean, it's a lion, carved in stone, looking morose. It's not like they're going to get up and demand a union. I did feel bad for the poor fella, though. Dying lions always tug at the heartstrings, almost as much as a Swiss banker trying to explain negative interest rates. All in all, Lucerne is a fine place to visit if you've a taste for impeccable scenery and a fondness for people who don't seem to sweat. Just be prepared to be surrounded by an awful lot of cleanliness and order. It's enough to make a man yearn for a good, old-fashioned, American dust devil.
