Chamonix, you say? Why, it's a place positively crammed with mountains, like some gargantuan baker flung a whole sack of flour and rock at the sky. They call them Alps, these geological upstarts, and the Mont Blanc, bless its snowy heart, is the tallest of the lot, sticks up like a particularly arrogant church steeple. The place is swarming with tourists, of course, mostly Englishmen, I suspect, attempting to appear devil-may-care in brightly colored trousers and sensible walking shoes. They come to climb, these intrepid souls, though I’m convinced half of them spend more time clinging to sheer cliff faces wishing they’d brought a better picnic than actually making headway. Then there are the skiers, who I find a particular source of amusement. They waddle about in their cumbersome boots, looking for all the world like penguins escaped from a particularly ill-advised Antarctic expedition, only to then hurtle down the slopes at breakneck speed, limbs flailing and yelping like startled cats. It’s quite a spectacle, really.

The town itself is a hodgepodge of quaint chalets and modern monstrosities, all vying for the tourist dollar. One can purchase anything from miniature climbing axes to suspiciously potent Génépi liqueur, the latter of which I suspect is responsible for half the ill-advised mountaineering attempts that occur in these parts. The shopkeepers are a shrewd bunch, eyes twinkling with the knowledge that they hold the key to your alpine adventure (or at least your overpriced souvenir mug). And the food! Oh, the food. Cheese in quantities that would make a Wisconsin dairy farmer blush, potatoes rendered in every imaginable form, and sausages of… dubious origin. It's a culinary adventure, to be sure, though I confess I spent a good deal of my time convinced that my digestive system was plotting a revolt against such gastronomic excess. But despite the crowds, the expense, and the slightly unsettling sausage, there is a certain undeniable charm to Chamonix. Perhaps it's the sheer audacity of the landscape, or the feeling that you're standing on the edge of something truly grand and slightly terrifying. Or perhaps, I’m just susceptible to the wiles of a good vin chaud. Whatever it is, it’s a place one wouldn’t soon forget, even if one desperately tried.
