Higbie, now there was a specimen fit to be framed and hung above a saloon bar – though I reckon the barkeep might object to the competition. He was a man built on the principle of lasting longer than granite, all angles and hard edges like a mountain range sculpted by a particularly cantankerous deity. Claimed he’d been everywhere, seen everything, and smelled everything twice, which I suspected was only half a lie, considering the lingering aroma of stale tobacco and something akin to boiled wool that perpetually clung to him. Said he found his fortune in a lost mine, and I remember one time that he was saying he had found the mine. But when I asked him to show me he said "that was some time ago" and "it's a lot of work to find it".

He possessed the uncanny ability to spin a yarn so tall it would make a redwood blush, full of wild Indians, escaped convicts, and gold nuggets the size of hen's eggs, all occurring, naturally, just beyond the next bend in the river or over the crest of the very next hill. You never quite knew if Higbie was telling the truth, embellishing, or just plain inventing, but it hardly mattered. The entertainment value alone was worth the price of a whiskey – or two.

And Lord, the way that man approached a game of cards! Like a hawk eyeing a field mouse, every twitch of his mustache, every squint of his one good eye (the other having apparently lost a fight with a particularly stubborn bumblebee, or so he claimed), was a calculated move in a silent war of nerves. He'd feign ignorance, then pounce with the shrewdness of a riverboat gambler, leaving his opponents sputtering and reaching for their wallets, convinced they’d been outwitted by a cunning master of deception. Sometimes that was true, sometimes I think he was just lucky, but that didn't lessen the appeal. Higbie, he was a living legend in his own mind, and after spending an evening in his company, you'd be forgiven for believing it too. He was the type of individual who reminded you why you had come here.
