Ballou, now there was a specimen fit for Barnum’s museum, though I reckon even Barnum would have hesitated before labeling him human. He was a lawyer, of sorts – more like a fledgling buzzard attempting to soar on gusts of hot air and legal jargon scavenged from discarded law books. I met him, naturally, in Nevada, that great breeding ground for eccentricities and misplaced confidence. Ballou arrived sporting a suit three sizes too big, likely pilfered from a departed undertaker, and a pair of spectacles perched precariously on his nose like a hummingbird defying gravity. He claimed to be a master of mining law, but his legal arguments resembled more a confused yelp than a reasoned discourse. He could argue the merits of a claim while simultaneously tangling himself in the intricacies of his own tongue, leaving opposing counsel utterly bewildered and, truth be told, myself not much clearer on the matter. 

He had a peculiar habit of punctuating his sentences with a nervous twitch of his left eye, an involuntary wink that suggested either profound cunning or utter incompetence. I remained uncertain which. He was a man of boundless ambition, or perhaps just boundless delusion, convinced he was destined for a seat on the Supreme Court, a notion as laughable as a jackrabbit attempting to ride a bucking bronco. Yet, bless his simple heart, he possessed an unwavering optimism that bordered on the admirable. Even after losing a case so spectacularly that the judge threatened to have him declared legally insane, Ballou would dust himself off, adjust his spectacles, and proclaim, “Well, that’s just one perspective! The jury clearly suffered from a temporary lapse of reason.” He was a disaster, an accident waiting to happen, a walking, talking demonstration of the Peter Principle in action. But, confound it all, you couldn't help but feel a pang of sympathy for the fellow. He was, after all, just another lost soul seeking his fortune in the dusty, unforgiving landscape of the Wild West, albeit armed with nothing more than a second-hand suit and a healthy dose of misplaced faith in his own abilities.
