Now, about these Mormons, out in the Great Basin, a queer bunch, if you ask me, though I wouldn't go so far as to say they’re any queerer than some fellas I’ve seen back East tryin' to make sense of politics. Seems like this fella, Joseph Smith, dug up some gold plates, or somebody did, and he wrangled them into a book, the Book of Mormon, mind you, claimin’ it was a history of the ancient Americans, mixed up with some Hebrew prophets, lost tribes, and Jesus Christ his own self visitin' the place. A tidy yarn, wouldn’t you say? Enough to start a whole new religion, apparently. 

Folks out there took to it like a hound to a bone, and before you know it, they were buildin' temples and baptizin' everybody in sight. Their leader, Brigham Young, a man with the constitution of an ox and the persuasive power of a rattlesnake charmer, marched 'em all out to the middle of nowhere, Salt Lake Valley, which he declared to be Zion, right there amidst the sagebrush and the crickets. A fella’s gotta admire the sheer gall of the man. They irrigated that desert, planted crops, and built a city prettier than you’d expect, considerin’ where they started. All that teamwork’s a mighty fine thing, though I reckon it was partly driven by the fact that if they didn’t work together, they’d all starve.

And then there’s the matter of polygamy. More wives than you can shake a stick at! I heard tell some fellas had dozens. Can you imagine the breakfast table? More to the point, can you imagine rememberin' all their names? Seems like a right complicated arrangement, and one that the United States government took a dim view of, to put it mildly. Created a whole heap of trouble, that did. Though, if I were to be charitable, one might argue that if a man is willing to take care of multiple families, providing for them and whatnot, then maybe it’s his own business. Though, I wouldn’t dare say that too loudly within earshot of my own wife. She's got a temper that could melt lead. But all in all, these Mormons, they’re a resourceful bunch. As strange as their beliefs might seem, they've built themselves a kingdom in the wilderness, and you can’t deny them that.
