Brigham Young, now there's a figure ripe for the picking, like a late-season peach hanging heavy on the branch, just waiting to be devoured by the insatiable appetite of history. They say he was a carpenter, turned religious prophet, turned empire builder out here in the desert – a trifecta of transformations that'd make a chameleon blush. First off, he inherits the remnants of poor Joe Smith's fractured flock after the poor fella bought the farm in Illinois. Next thing you know, Young's leading them westward, a veritable Moses with a covered wagon instead of a burning bush, promising them a land flowing with milk and honey (though mostly it ended up flowing with alkaline water and sagebrush, if you ask me). He built Salt Lake City out of dust and sheer stubbornness, which is about as impressive as pulling a rabbit out of a hat, provided the rabbit is the size of an ox and the hat is a sandstorm. 

Now, about those wives of his, that's where the story gets juicy, don’t it? Some folks called him a visionary, others a polygamist – I reckon he was both, or maybe just a fella who figured he'd found a loophole in the Ten Commandments big enough to drive a team of oxen through. Imagine the breakfast table! I can picture him there, surrounded by a legion of Mrs. Youngs, each vying for a piece of his attention and maybe the last biscuit. Enough to drive any man to drink – though, seeing as how this was Mormon country, I suppose he stuck to ginger ale. He ruled that territory with an iron fist and a silver tongue, a regular potentate in homespun clothes. He could preach a sermon that'd bring tears to a stone gargoyle and cut a business deal that'd make a Wall Street robber baron green with envy. Say what you will about Brigham Young, but you can't deny the man had gumption, which, out here in the Wild West, was worth more than all the gold in California. He was a character, alright – a genuine, authentic, unvarnished specimen of the American spirit, flaws and all. And Lord knows, he had more than his fair share of both.
