Now, Carson City. Lord, that's a town that could give a saint the blues, if saints were partial to gambling saloons and dust devils the size of Rhode Island. You saunter down the main drag, and you're more likely to see a tumbleweed dancing a jig than a respectable woman doing her shopping. The buildings, bless their sun-baked hearts, are mostly fashioned out of wood and wishful thinking, painted every shade of brown a desert can conjure up. Seems like the architects just slapped 'em together, figured they’d stand ‘til the next good wind, and then packed their bags for somewhere with a bit more permanence.

The silver fever, you see, has addled the brains of folks here proper. Every other fella you meet is either a miner claiming he's about to strike it rich, or a con man claiming he already has. Hard to tell which is the bigger fool, him digging in the ground or him handing over his earnings at the poker table. They all talk about the Comstock Lode like it’s the pearly gates, and every ounce of silver pulled from that cursed hole has drawn in more schemers and dreamers than a traveling medicine show. The air’s so thick with speculation you could cut it with a bowie knife.

I spent a week there myself, trying to suss out if the whole affair was genuine or just a grand hoax played on a gullible nation. Near as I can figure, it’s somewhere in between. There’s silver, sure enough, but it’s surrounded by enough bluster and balderdash to make a mule choke. And the people? Well, they’re a curious lot, a hodgepodge of nationalities and intentions, all thrown together in this desolate spot, bound by the hope of striking it rich, or failing that, fleecing someone who has. I wouldn't call it a den of iniquity, mind you. More like a slightly dusty parlor with a suspiciously high tolerance for whiskey and tall tales. Left with lighter pockets and a heavier heart, I did, vowing to stick to writing about fools, for that seemed the safest and most profitable enterprise in the territory.
