Now, about this Coliseum, this grand old ruin in Rome, why, they tell you it’s where gladiators fought and Christians met their maker in a most unpleasant fashion – lions, you see, weren't known for their table manners. Seems a tad uncivilized, don't it? But then again, so is arguing about politics, and folks have been at that for eons. Anyway, they claim it held, oh, eighty-some thousand spectators. Eighty thousand souls gathered to watch fellas whack each other with swords and beasts crunch on bones! I can barely get ten people to agree on a place for supper, let alone coordinate such a spectacle. Makes you wonder what they were all thinking. Probably not much, if I were to hazard a guess.

You wander about this place, and they’ve got little plaques everywhere explaining what was what. "Here," says one, "stood the emperor's box." Well, good for him. I bet he had a better view than the poor blokes in the nosebleed seats. And "Here," says another, "was the entrance for the gladiators." Probably wishing they'd stayed home and taken up pottery. Honestly, imagine the marketing campaign for this thing back in the day. “Come one, come all! See brave men die for your amusement! Refreshments available!” It's a wonder anybody attended at all, but then again, humans have always had a peculiar fascination with train wrecks and public hangings.

The structure itself, I must say, is rather impressive, even in its dilapidated state. Huge arches and crumbling walls that reach for the heavens. But you can't help but wonder, looking at those grand, decaying stones, if all the blood and glory was really worth the price. Here it stands, a monument to violence and spectacle, whispering tales of emperors and slaves, lions and lambs. And there are tourists who are taking photographs, and buying postcards, so I’m sure it was well worth it. Funny old world, isn't it? Building empires and tearing them down, all for the entertainment of the masses. And if you ask me, that’s one show that’s been running for far too long.
