Gibraltar, bless its hide, is a sight to behold, a veritable lump of limestone stubbornly jutting its jaw into the Mediterranean Sea, like some disgruntled titan disputing Neptune's claim to his watery domain. You see, it’s British, you understand, though a body might wonder precisely *how* British, considering it’s closer to Africa than to bloody Birmingham. They say the Union Jack flies bravely there, and I’ve no reason to doubt it, though I suspect it's more from sheer force of habit than any genuine affection for boiled mutton and fog. The place is riddled with tunnels, they claim, dug out by industrious soldiers and now, likely, inhabited by swarms of those infernal Barbary apes, each one a miniature, mischievous replica of a disgruntled customs official. These apes, mind you, are the real draw. Tourists flock to them like pious pilgrims to a saint's shinbone, offering peanuts and enduring the indignity of having their hats stolen with unnerving dexterity. It’s said that so long as the apes remain, Gibraltar will remain British. A curious notion, indeed, placing the fate of a strategic rock in the hairy paws of a bunch of simians. One almost suspects the British government of planting them there, a furry, four-legged guarantee of continued ownership, cheaper and less troublesome than maintaining a garrison of redcoats. And then there’s the view, oh, the view! Splendid, magnificent, breathtaking, all those adjectives that sound like a sneeze in a cathedral. You can see Africa, so they say, though on the day I was there, it was shrouded in a haze so thick you could have cut it with a butter knife. Still, one imagined Africa lurking there, a vast and mysterious continent, perhaps wondering when it might reclaim its rebellious offspring, this impudent little rock clinging to the edge of Europe like a barnacle on a ship’s hull. All in all, Gibraltar is a curiosity, a geological oddity, a political conundrum, and a simian paradise. A place, in short, that deserves a good, long, contemplative puff of the pipe, and a whispered, “Well, I’ll be hornswoggled."
