Now, Carson City. Lord, what a place. You wouldn't think, judging by the dearth of excitement, that it was the capital of Nevada, you'd reckon it more likely a misplaced collection of saloons and dust devils clinging precariously to the foot of the Sierras. Course, they got a grand Capitol building there, all spiffed up like a peacock amidst a flock of hens, but its grandeur only serves to highlight the humdrum existence that sprawls around it. They built it, I suspect, as a sort of apology for the rest of the town.

The legislative fellas, bless their cotton socks, they wander about with the serious air of men deciding the fate of empires. In truth, they're mostly deciding how best to spend the few dollars the silver mines grudgingly cough up, which is akin to arguing over the crumbs after a locust swarm. Then there are the ladies of Carson, God love 'em. Fine women, most of 'em, trying to bring a touch of civilization to a place that mostly understands pickaxes and gunfights. They hold socials and attempt to cultivate refined conversation, bless their hearts, but it's hard to discuss Emerson when there's a lingering scent of sagebrush and stale whiskey in the air. 

And the silver! Ah, the silver! You'd think a town practically sitting atop a mountain of the stuff would be overflowing with riches. But no, the real wealth tends to slither away eastward, leaving Carson with only the dregs and the dubious honor of being near it. I saw a fella there trying to sell a silver-plated coffeepot, claiming it was pure bullion. He got run out of town by a man waving a genuine silver dollar, and that was the most excitement I saw all week. Still, Carson's got a certain something, a rough-and-tumble charm that's hard to dislike. Maybe it's the sheer grit of the folks trying to make a life there, or maybe it's just the knowledge that any day now, another silver strike might just turn the whole place upside down. Either way, you won't forget Carson City. Or at least, you won't forget *why* you’d rather forget it.
