Now, Brigham, there was a specimen, a regular Mormon Mogul if ever I saw one. This here Brigham Young, he was the boss-man, the kingfish, the grand pooh-bah of the whole shebang out in Utah. You couldn't fling a brick without hitting one of his wives, or at least a cousin married to one of 'em. It was a sight, I tell you, like walking through a human cornfield, only instead of ears of corn, you had rows and rows of wives, all tending to their chores and babies, and looking at you with a practiced disinterest that only comes from years of sharing a husband with… well, more women than I’ve seen in most saloons. 

They say he was a carpenter by trade before the divine call, which explains a lot about the practical way he ran things. He built that Salt Lake City up out of the alkali dust like a man constructing a barn, plank by plank, wife by wife, commandment by commandment. He wasn't much for fancy talk, not like that Joe Smith fella, but he had a way about him, a steely-eyed conviction that could make a mountain man reconsider scalping him. I heard tell of him once, settling a land dispute between two fellas with nothing but a stern look and a biblical quote so obscure, nobody dared argue. 

He was a shrewd one, too, that Brigham. Knew how to work the government, knew how to keep the gentiles at bay, and knew how to make a desert bloom, even if it meant hauling water a hundred miles and convincing thousands of folks that hard work and obedience was the quickest route to paradise. Some folks called him a tyrant, said he ran Utah like his own personal kingdom. Maybe they were right, but then again, look at what he built out there in the middle of nowhere. Tyrant or no tyrant, he got things done. And Lord knows, in this world, getting things done is a sight more commendable than having good intentions and a weak handshake. You might not like his methods, or his matrimonial choices, but you had to admire the sheer cussedness of the man. He was a force of nature, a human geyser, a regular, god-fearing, wife-collecting, desert-conquering phenomenon, that Brigham Young.
