Now, pard, let me tell you about this animal they call a leopard. Or panther. Or painter, or catamount, or whatever blasted name fancy strikes them to use in their highfalutin' books. Out West, we just called 'em trouble, and that was a mighty accurate description, let me tell you. See, these spotted devils ain't like your run-of-the-mill mountain lion, the kind that’ll sneak off with a stray calf and call it a day. Oh no, a leopard – or whatever you’re calling it today – has got a streak of pure orneriness in its soul, a meanness that would make a sidewinder blush. I recall old Jebediah down by the river swore he saw one wearing a derby and smokin' a cigar, just a-sittin' on a rock, lookin' smug as a judge. Now, I wouldn't vouch for the derby, Jebediah had been hitting the moonshine a might heavy that week, but the smugness? Oh, that tracks. These cats got a way of lookin’ at you like you owe ‘em money and they ain’t afraid to collect it in person.

They're sly, too, slicker than a greased pig at a county fair. You could be walkin' along, mindin' your own business, humming a tune about the gal you left behind, when BAM! Suddenly, you're dancin' a jig with a six-foot feline sporting claws sharper than any Bowie knife. And the worst part? It ain't even a fair fight. They got the advantage of camouflage, the patience of a saint waitin' for his inheritance, and the spring-loaded agility of a grasshopper on fire. You'd be lucky to get a shot off before you’re starin' at the pearly gates. Then, of course, there’s the scream. Lord have mercy, the scream. It ain’t no polite meow, mind you. It's a banshee's wail mixed with a rusty gate hinge and a baby cryin' for its mama, all amplified by the devil himself. Enough to curdle your milk and set your teeth on edge for a week. So, pard, if you ever find yourself face to face with one of these spotted miscreants, just remember old Mark's advice: Run. And don't look back. Unless, of course, you’re fond of bein’ someone else’s lunch.
