Lucerne, bless its heart, is a town that tries, oh, it tries mightily, to be grand. You see it in the way the mountains clutch at the lake, like a miser with his last gold coin – all snow-capped and imposing, but I suspect, rather bored with the whole performance. The Lion Monument, now there’s a spectacle! A mortally wounded beast, carved right out of the rock face. One can’t help but feel a bit sorry for him, lying there for eternity, attracting swarms of tourists with their infernal clicking contraptions. I reckon he'd rather be gnawing on a stray dog or two, if he had the chance. Then there's the Chapel Bridge, a long, covered affair, painted with scenes of local history. Some of those paintings, I tell you, are enough to give a saint the vapors. One fellow’s intestines were practically leaping out of his belly, and another was being tortured with such… enthusiasm, that I nearly dropped my parasol. The Swiss, they’re a practical people, mind you, but their art can be a touch… robust.

The swans on the lake, now those are creatures of leisure. Fat, arrogant things, they glide about like feathered dukes, demanding tribute from any fool who dares approach with a crumb of bread. And the cuckoo clocks! Land sakes, the cuckoo clocks! Every shop window is crammed with them, each one more elaborate and absurd than the last. You’d think the whole town was suffering from a collective case of avian delusion. I swear, after a while, that cuckooing sound follows you right into your dreams. But despite all its peculiarities and pretense, Lucerne does possess a certain charm. It’s like a slightly over-dressed auntie, a bit stuffy and predictable, but with a twinkle in her eye and a heart of, well, maybe not pure gold, but at least a decent-sized nugget of silver. And the air, Lord, the air! Crisp and clean, it’ll fill your lungs and make you feel like you could climb one of those blasted mountains yourself, if you weren’t too busy dodging the swans and listening to the cuckoos.
