Heidelberg, you see, is one of those places where the charm hangs so thick in the air, you could practically spread it on your bread and butter, if you were inclined towards such a saccharine breakfast. The Neckar River, a perfectly respectable stream, though perhaps not quite as flamboyant as the Mississippi of my youth, meanders through the valley with an air of profound self-importance. The castle, ah, the castle! A magnificent ruin, of course, because what's a German town without a suitably imposing collection of rubble? It sprawls upon the hillside like a drunken giant who’s finally decided to take a nap, its red sandstone face etched with the wrinkles of centuries, and quite possibly a few beer stains, knowing the Germans. One can't help but wonder what dreadful parties they must have thrown up there, judging by the sheer volume of broken stone and the echoes of merriment still lingering in the air. The townsfolk, bless their earnest souls, are perpetually posing for photographs against this historical backdrop, perpetually attempting to capture the "romance" of it all. As if romance can be distilled and bottled like a potent schnapps! And the students! A veritable swarm of them, buzzing about like intellectual bees, all sporting the latest fashions in tweed jackets and an air of world-weariness that only comes from consuming vast quantities of philosophical texts and cheap beer. They congregate in the streets, debating the meaning of life with the gravity usually reserved for matters of state, and then promptly forget all about it when a particularly attractive Fräulein strolls by. You see, Heidelberg is like a beautifully painted postcard that’s been slightly smudged by time, a bit too perfect, perhaps, to be entirely believable, but utterly irresistible nonetheless. It's a place where history breathes, where romance simmers, and where even the most hardened cynic (like myself, naturally) can't help but crack a smile and admit, just between you and me, that it’s quite a delightful little spot.
