Ballou, now there was a specimen. Found him out West, fresh off the stagecoach like a half-ripe melon rolling into a ditch. Claimed he was a lawyer, but the only law he seemed intimately acquainted with was Murphy's, and that in the most personal of ways. Always landing on the wrong side of it. I suspect his legal acumen extended to reading the labels on patent medicine bottles, and even then, he probably mispronounced half the ingredients. He reminded me of a stray dog, all eagerness and tail wags, except instead of fleas, he was infested with incompetence.

He attached himself to our prospecting party like a barnacle to a rudder, figuring, I reckon, that even a fool could stumble across gold if he tripped over enough rocks. And stumble he did, frequently and with considerable fanfare. He'd fall in a creek, lose his hat to a hawk, or mistake a badger for a friendly companion. The man had a knack for converting the simplest task into a three-ring circus of errors. Remember that time he tried to make coffee? Ended up with a pot of muddy water tasting suspiciously of singed squirrel, and managed to set his beard alight in the process. You could hear him hollering for miles!

Yet, despite his utter lack of practical skill, Ballou possessed an optimism that bordered on the delusional. He genuinely believed he was on the cusp of striking it rich, even after we'd spent weeks digging nothing but dirt and disappointment. It was almost admirable, this unwavering faith in the face of overwhelming evidence to the contrary. Like a blind mule pulling a broken cart uphill in a hailstorm. You almost wanted to pat him on the head and say, "Bless your heart, you poor, misguided creature." But mostly, you just wanted him to stay away from the explosives. Truth be told, Ballou was a walking, talking calamity, but he was *our* calamity. And somehow, amidst the dust, the discomfort, and the endless string of Ballou-related mishaps, he made the days a little less tedious, a little more…entertaining, in a morbid sort of way. Like watching a train wreck, you couldn't look away.
