Now, these miners, they weren't your parlor-room fellas, simpering over lace doilies and sipping tea. Lord no! These were fellas chiseled out of granite, seasoned with gunpowder smoke, and fluent in a vocabulary that'd make a bishop blush. A miner, you see, lived a life that was a good sight shorter than a politician's promise, and thrice as precarious. They'd descend into the bowels of the earth, armed with naught but a pick, a shovel, and the unwavering conviction that fortune lay just beyond the next vein of quartz. Of course, most times it didn't. More often than not, it was naught but a sore back, a lungful of dust, and the distinct feeling that you were personally fueling the devil's furnace. But they kept at it, bless their optimistic hearts.

You'd find 'em in camps sprouting up faster than weeds after a rainstorm, a motley crew of Cornishmen, Irishmen, Germans, and the occasional misguided Eastern gent who figured he could strike it rich without soiling his hands. They'd bicker and brawl over everything from the best way to sharpen a pickaxe to the ownership of a particularly stubborn mule. Yet, come quitting time, they'd be shoulder-to-shoulder at the nearest saloon, swapping tall tales and emptying their meager earnings into the till like water down a rat hole. 

Their knowledge of geology was… shall we say, intuitive? They could tell you more about the habits of a quartz vein than any fancy professor back East, mostly by dint of spending half their lives trying to persuade the blighted thing to cough up its treasure. They were superstitious as all get-out, too, these fellas. Wouldn’t whistle in a mine for love nor money, and any miner who'd killed a rat, why, he might as well have signed his own death warrant. But underneath all the grit and bluster, there was a sort of rough honesty to 'em, a camaraderie forged in the shared knowledge that any day could be your last. And in a country plumb full of rogues and schemers, a little honest dirt seemed a rare and precious commodity.
