Higbie, now there was a specimen. You could spot him a mile off, not just on account of the sun-scorched, rooster-tail mustache that rivaled a haystack, but because he moved with the distinct air of a man who'd just swallowed a horseshoe sideways. He was part owner, I believe, of the "Blind Buck" claim, though the only thing blind about it was the fools, including yours truly, who kept investing in it. He was a character, Higbie was, cut from the cloth of the Sierras itself – rough, coarse, and prone to sudden fits of temper that sounded like a wounded mule braying at a tin can. He’d swear he was richer than Croesus one minute, talking 'bout fancy carriages and satin breeches, and the next he’d be borrowing tobacco scraps off you, looking glum as a drowned rat.

Higbie, you see, was a gold-hunting philosopher of sorts. He held forth daily on the peculiar habits of ore deposits and the general perfidy of Chinese laundrymen, all punctuated by a generous sprinkling of blasphemous oaths. He claimed to know the secret language of quartz, swore he could smell a strike a mile off, and had a theory that earthquakes were caused by gophers digging too enthusiastically. Never mind that he hadn’t struck paydirt in longer than a Mormon marriage lasted, his confidence was as boundless as the Nevada desert. He was a walking, talking example of the grand American delusion – the unwavering belief that riches were just around the corner, obscured only by a slight lack of luck, a generous dose of bad judgment, and a persistent shortage of dynamite. But you couldn't help but like the old coot, bless his cotton socks. He had a way of making even the dreariest day in the diggings feel like an adventure, even if that adventure mostly consisted of dodging mule kicks and listening to him drone on about the finer points of prospector's rheumatism. He was the grit in the oyster, the fly in the ointment, and the reason I still, against all better judgment, held onto a shred of hope that the Blind Buck might someday yield something more valuable than a handful of fool's gold and a fresh outbreak of bedbugs.
