Now, this Colosseum, this grand old amphitheater of Rome, a place they called it for gladiatorial combats and public spectacles, is something to behold, I tell you. A grand, imposing ruin it is, like a giant’s molar, long since extracted but still stubbornly proclaiming its existence. They say thousands upon thousands could pack themselves into that circular behemoth, all a-hollering and a-huzzahing over chaps in loincloths whacking each other with swords. Seems a trifle barbaric, doesn't it? All this blood and thunder for the sake of entertainment. One pictures the Emperors, fat and indolent, reclining on their cushions, giving the thumbs-up or thumbs-down with an air of supreme authority, likely more concerned with the quality of their wine than the quality of mercy.

The stones themselves, though, are rather interesting. Each one, I reckon, could tell a tale if it had a mind to, a tale of roaring crowds, of terrified gladiators, of the occasional stray lion who'd wandered off course and found itself a rather large and noisy lunch. I suspect the pigeons that now call it home have gleaned a few interesting tidbits, too, though getting them to divulge their secrets is a task akin to milking a mosquito. One can almost hear the echoes of the past as you wander through its corridors, the clatter of sandals, the clash of steel, the screams of the vanquished, all blending together into a rather unsettling, if historically significant, symphony of mayhem. The whole shebang looks like a cookie that a child giant took a bite out of, but it has a way of lingering on one's mind, that Colosseum. A monument to both the glory and the grotesque, it is, a reminder that human nature, like a politician’s promise, is a rather unreliable thing. And one wonders, of course, if the pigeons ever ponder these profound truths while roosting on the very spot where some poor fellow met his untimely end. Likely not. Pigeons, bless their simple hearts, are far too occupied with the weighty matter of finding their next crumb.
