Zermatt, they call it. A village snuggled amongst the Alps so high, it tickles the underbelly of Heaven itself. Or at least, I imagine it does. I'm not one for heights, truth be told. A sturdy stool is about as far aloft as I care to venture. But Zermatt, bless its heart, compels a fella to crane his neck skyward, just to gawk at that Matterhorn. A monstrous chunk of rock, sticking up like a bishop's mitre gone astray, daring the clouds to try and top it. The locals, bless their simple souls, seem awfully proud of this geological oddity. I suppose if you’re stuck looking at it your whole life, you might as well find some amusement in it.

Now, the novelty of a motorcar is entirely absent in Zermatt, a fact that struck me as rather quaint, until I attempted to navigate the cobblestone streets on foot after a hearty lunch of cheese and wine. Then, "quaint" swiftly morphed into "downright exasperating." Electric contraptions, little buzzing bugs of vehicles, swarm the place, silent and deadly. One nearly ran me over, driven by a chap with a walrus mustache and a glare that could curdle milk. I swear, he was aiming for my shins. Probably thought I was blocking his view of that wretched mountain. The air, however, is remarkably clean, free from the coughing and wheezing of internal combustion. Though, truth be told, the ringing of cowbells does get a mite repetitive after a while. Seems these Alpine bovines are quite fond of announcing their presence, and they do so with a gusto that would make a town crier blush. And the tourists, oh, the tourists! A motley crew of bundled-up humanity, sporting brightly colored garments and an alarming proficiency with selfie sticks. They flock to Zermatt like moths to a particularly dazzling lantern, eager to capture the perfect image of themselves against the backdrop of that blasted Matterhorn. One might think they believe possessing a photograph will somehow imbue them with a portion of the mountain’s grandeur. Personally, I find it a bit sad. But then again, who am I to judge? I'm just an observer, scratching out these humble observations while nursing a glass of something that tastes suspiciously like turpentine and hoping I don’t get trampled by an electric buggy.
