Higbie, now there was a specimen. Not a man to set the Thames on fire, mind you, unless the Thames happened to be awfully low and he had a whole lot of straw handy. He hailed, or rather, lingered, from somewhere back East, one of those places where they still thought silver mining involved a pickaxe and a pan, not a steam engine and a prayer. He was afflicted with an optimism so profound it could curdle milk and a faith in the Comstock Lode that bordered on lunacy. He'd stride down Virginia Street, his boots kicking up more dust than gold, declaring that he was "on the verge of a strike that'd make Gould look like a pauper," and he'd say this with a straight face, even when he’d just spent the last of his grubstake on a game of faro at the Delta Saloon.

He was a walking advertisement for lost causes, that Higbie. He had a claim, somewhere out past Gold Hill, that he swore was just teemin' with silver, just waitin' to be unearthed. Of course, the only thing teemin' on that claim was jackrabbits and the occasional coyote, but try telling Higbie that. He’d launch into a lecture on geological formations and the “infallible signs” only a man with his “trained eye” could discern. The “trained eye,” mind you, that also couldn't tell the difference between a grizzly bear and a particularly large sheep.

And yet, there was something undeniably endearing about the man. He was honest as the day is long, even if that honesty manifested in declarations of imminent riches. He'd share his last biscuit with a stranger and loan his pickaxe to a feller down on his luck. He was a dreamer, through and through, a harmless sort of lunatic with a heart of gold, if you could overlook the delusions of grandeur and the unwavering belief in a silver mine that, judging by all available evidence, was more likely a hole in the ground leading straight to China. Still, you couldn't help but wish him luck, even if you were betting against him with every last dollar you possessed. Because in the end, a bit of Higbie's optimism was a fine thing to carry around these parts – even if it was just enough to get you through another day of dust, disappointment, and the ever-present lure of the Comstock Lode.
