Heidelberg! A town built on a hill, or rather, draped upon it like a cloak haphazardly tossed aside after a long night of Rhine wine and student revelry. One wonders if the architect, upon realizing the sheer audacity of the terrain, simply shrugged and declared, "Bah! Let them climb! It will build character, or at least formidable calves." The castle, perched majestically above, is of course, a ruin. But what a ruin! A truly *German* ruin, complete with ivy that clings with the tenacity of a tax collector and enough crumbling sandstone to supply masons for the next century. One can almost hear the echoes of boisterous knights and equally boisterous banquets, though presently it's mostly the echoes of tourists snapping photographs with cameras the size of small children. They come from all corners of the globe, these eager picture-takers, drawn by the romance of it all. Romance, you see, thrives exceptionally well amongst decaying grandeur.

And the students! Ah, the students of Heidelberg! A breed unto themselves, they are, with their dueling scars (acquired, one presumes, in the pursuit of intellectual arguments or, perhaps, rather spirited disagreements over the proper brewing of coffee) and an air of cultivated nonchalance that only comes from knowing, deep down, you are part of something ancient and storied. They saunter about, filling the air with philosophical pronouncements and the aroma of pipe tobacco, looking for all the world like miniature professors just waiting to be grown. The streets themselves are a labyrinthine delight, twisting and turning like the plot of a particularly convoluted Wagnerian opera. One can easily get lost, but who would complain? Each crooked alleyway promises a new discovery: a hidden courtyard, a quaint shop selling cuckoo clocks of questionable authenticity, or another establishment offering that blessed, blessed Rhine wine. Indeed, Heidelberg, for all its huff and puff and historical baggage, possesses a certain charm. A charm that makes one forget the steep climbs, forgive the relentless tourist hordes, and, if only for a brief while, believe in the possibility of knights, romance, and perhaps, even, a cuckoo clock that actually tells the correct time.
