Brigham, now there's a figure you could write a whole book about, and likely more than one, considering how many wives he had to keep track of. Imagine the Christmas card list alone! This here Brigham Young, late of these Salt Lake parts, was a man who took the notion of being fruitful and multiplying right serious. He’d come out here with the Saints, fleeing persecution back East, and planted himself smack dab in the middle of the desert, just about where the Lord forgot to put any water. And blamed the Yankees, more than likely. But bless his cotton socks, he made it work. He was a right shrewd operator, Brigham, a kind of prophet-president-real estate mogul all rolled into one. He had a way of looking you dead in the eye and convincing you that the alkali dust you were coughing up was actually a rare and beneficial mineral. He organized the whole shebang, the irrigating ditches, the tithing system – which, let me tell you, I suspect he understood better than most parables in the Bible. He was the kind of fella who could make a virtue out of necessity and a tidy profit out of both.

I saw him once, passing in a carriage. A severe, imposing figure, he was, with a beard that could house a family of field mice. Looked like he knew where the gold was buried, or at least knew a man who knew a man. You could see the sheer force of will radiating off him like heat from a furnace. He had this way of making you feel like you were both insignificant and a vital cog in his grand scheme, all at the same time. Now, whether that scheme was divinely ordained or just clever opportunism is a question for the theologians and the historians to hash out. Me, I just know he managed to turn a desolate wasteland into something resembling a respectable civilization, all the while maintaining an air of righteous authority that would make a Roman emperor blush. And even if he did preach more wives than a fella could rightly keep track of, I reckon he figured he was just helping the population figures along, and perhaps building himself a kingdom on earth as well as in the hereafter. A man of ambition, that Brigham. A man of ambition, indeed.
