Now, this Coliseum, this Flavian Amphitheater as the highfalutin scholars are wont to call it, is a ruin, to be sure. A magnificent ruin, mind you, a testament to the Romans' rather boisterous sense of entertainment, but a ruin nonetheless. One can picture it, can't one, back in its heyday? Eighty thousand souls crammed in, a veritable sea of togas and dubious hairstyles, all hollering for blood and spectacle. Lions snarling, gladiators grimacing – no doubt occasionally tripping over their own sandals, which would have been a droll sight indeed, though I suspect the crowd wouldn't have found it so amusing.

They say they staged mock naval battles in the thing! Imagine flooding that enormous arena; it boggles the mind, it does. And then filling it with ships, and sailors, all pretending to sink each other. Must have been a devil of a clean-up job afterward, I imagine a lot of smelly soggy togas lying around. One is naturally suspicious of these 'historical' accounts, of course; seems to me the Romans were rather prone to exaggeration, like a Texan fisherman bragging about the size of his catch. But even if only half of what they say is true, it was a grand, ghastly, glorious mess, this Coliseum.

Nowadays, it’s mostly pigeons that inhabit the place, cooing and leaving their calling cards where emperors once held court. Still draws a crowd, though. Tourists, you see, all poking around with their guidebooks and cameras, trying to capture the faded grandeur on film. Bless their hearts, they’re trying to reconstruct a past they can only imagine. I suppose that's what we all do, in the end. Trying to piece together the broken fragments of history, hoping to catch a glimpse of the ghosts that still linger in these old stones. And while the lions and gladiators are long gone, replaced by picture-taking tourists and feathered flying rats, one can still feel something of the old excitement, the echoes of the roar of the crowd. It's a fine place to spend an afternoon if you don't mind the smell of bird droppings and the persistent nagging feeling that you're standing where countless men and beasts met their untimely end. A bit morbid, perhaps, but bracingly honest, which is more than one can say for most tourist traps these days.
