Now, this Coliseum, this great, hulking testament to the bygone days of Roman amusement, or, more precisely, Roman barbarity – is a sight to behold, I reckon, if you're the sort who finds pleasure in imagining the spilling of blood and the roars of a multitude demanding more of the same. And to be fair, I found myself somewhat engrossed, though I do pride myself on a certain level of refinement that should preclude such base entertainments. Imagine, if you will, a stadium on a scale grand enough to comfortably seat a small city, its stone face weathered by centuries of sun and scandal, each brick practically whispering tales of gladiators and lions, and enough gore to make a butcher blush.

One can almost see them, those brave, or perhaps foolish, souls, stepping into the arena, the sun glinting off their bronze armor, the weight of expectation heavier than any shield. The crowd, a boisterous sea of humanity, their faces twisted into expressions of bloodlust and fascination, their thumbs poised to dictate life or death. You can picture the Emperor himself, fat and bored, giving the final, fateful signal with a wave of his bejeweled hand. A rather undemocratic system, mind you, but one that apparently provided no end of amusement.

And the animals, oh, the poor, bewildered creatures dragged from far-flung corners of the Empire to meet their end in this grand theatre. Lions, tigers, bears – oh my! As a Missourian, I feel a pang of sympathy even for those beasts. One can’t help but wonder what thoughts ran through their tiny animal brains as they faced the pointy sticks of highly trained killers. It’s a tragicomedy on a grand scale, wouldn't you say? A monument to human ingenuity and, at the same time, a testament to our capacity for cruelty. One almost expects a circus ringmaster to stroll out and announce the next spectacular bloodbath, or perhaps a ticket vendor hawking programs detailing the day's various deaths. Indeed, I departed with the distinct feeling that I had witnessed not just a historical relic, but a mirror reflecting some rather unflattering aspects of human nature, a mirror that needed a good cleaning, to be sure, if we ever hope to present a more civilized image to the stars.
