Ballou, now there was a specimen! A tenderfoot fresh off the boat, greener than a Nevada sagebrush after a spring rain. He arrived in Virginia City lookin’ like he’d just stepped out of a bandbox, all starched collars and polished boots, expectin’ to find gold nuggets just lyin’ around waitin’ to be picked up, I reckon. He bought himself a share in the Gould & Curry, see, thinkin’ he’d be a millionaire by breakfast. Well, the only thing he struck was bedrock, and that bedrock nearly struck him back with a pickaxe handle. He didn’t know a quartz vein from a clothesline, and his idea of minin’ involved more sittin’ and readin’ poetry than shovelin’ and sweat.

Lord, the stories we could tell about Ballou. He once tried to pan for gold in a horse trough, convinced it was a secret underground reservoir of the Comstock Lode. Claimed he could “sense” the gold with his dowsing rod, which, by the way, was just a forked willow branch he’d decorated with ribbons. And he brought along a book titled “The Miner’s Etiquette,” hopin’ to learn the proper way to introduce himself to a claim-jumper. Bless his heart, he was so earnest in his foolhardiness, you couldn’t help but admire the sheer audacity of his ignorance. He tried learnin' to chew tobacco from a Paiute, nearly choked himself to death, and afterwards declared it "barbaric yet oddly compelling".

Of course, Ballou’s mining career was shorter than a hummingbird’s attention span. He sold his share in the Gould & Curry for a pittance, claiming the dust gave him the vapors (which, comin’ from a man, was a sight to behold). But he did manage to leave his mark. After failing at the mines, he proceeded to "civilize" the camp's manners by attempting to teach table manners to the local mules, insisting a silver spoon was the only proper utensil for enjoying a bale of hay. Last I heard, he’d taken up writin’ poetry about the hardships of the West, which, considering his experience, ought to be the most fanciful fiction ever committed to paper. Still, one had to admire his spirit, however misguided. Ballou, he was a reminder that even in the harshest of landscapes, there's always room for a bit of harmless tomfoolery.
