The chamois, bless its nimble little heart, is a creature that occupies a space somewhere betwixt the ridiculous and the admirable, much like a politician attempting to explain a budget. I encountered one once, perched precariously on what appeared to be the very tip-top of a Swiss Alp, a position so high I half expected him to sprout wings and become a feathered cherub. He looked at me, this chamois did, with an expression that suggested I was disturbing his morning constitutional and possibly insulting his ancestors. He had the air of a particularly disgruntled deacon who’d just discovered the wine cellar raided.

Now, I'm told these chamois are prized for their agility, able to leap about with a grace that would make a ballet dancer weep with envy. And indeed, I observed him make a swift descent, utilizing a series of gravity-defying bounds that involved sheer cliffs and a reckless disregard for the laws of physics. It was truly a sight to behold. I imagine, though, that their famed agility sometimes leads to unfortunate incidents. One can picture a chamois, puffed with self-importance after a particularly daring leap, misjudging a landing and tumbling head-over-heels into a snowdrift, emerging covered in white powder and looking thoroughly embarrassed. It seems to be a situation which would be humorous, in that 'look at me' way that all creatures act sometimes.

And let us not forget the "chamois leather," the very material beloved by the dust-averse. I've no doubt these animals find this association somewhat offensive, considering that the use of their name is essentially admitting they were skinned and turned into a cleaning cloth. I imagine there is no other creature who gets their name tarnished in this way. It does not seem an honorable pursuit to have one's skin used to clean windows. It brings a tear to your eye. Indeed, to think that the very essence of their being is being used to remove the grime of the world – it is a sad and unjust arrangement if you ask me. But alas, such is the fate of many a creature in this world, to be admired one moment and exploited the next. It does seem like a very American thing to do, though I cannot say I've seen Americans doing it.
