Brigham, now there’s a figure cut from whole cloth, a regular Mormon Moses leading his flock across a desert sea, only drier and pricklier than any Moses ever encountered. He wasn't much to look at, mind you, a bit on the blocky side, like a granite monument somebody’d forgotten to polish. Didn’t possess much of what you’d call charisma, either, not the fire-and-brimstone kind. More the steady, glowering kind, like a furnace banked for the night, promising heat, but mostly radiating a serious “don’t-cross-me” vibe. But appearances, as they say, are deceptive. This Brigham, this self-made prophet, had more savvy in his little finger than the entire U.S. Congress possessed in their collective heads. He built a city, almost out of thin air, a testament to what a man can accomplish with a solid plan, a stern demeanor, and a whole heap of unwavering faith (and, truth be told, a healthy dose of absolute authority).

He ran things in Utah Territory like a benevolent, if slightly intimidating, patriarch. Had more wives than a sultan and more children than you could shake a stick at, which made for lively Sunday suppers, I imagine. Some folks whispered about the…unique…domestic arrangements, painted him as a wicked polygamist. Others, mostly those who benefited from his hard work and shrewd investments, saw him as a pillar of the community, a benevolent dictator who knew what was best for everybody, whether they knew it or not. He was a businessman, a politician, a religious leader, a builder, a surveyor, a farmer, a diplomat (of sorts), and probably a decent blacksmith to boot. He could preach a sermon one minute, settle a land dispute the next, and then haggle over the price of flour with a traveling salesman. He was, in short, a regular marvel of Yankee ingenuity and Western grit, a man who could wrangle a fortune out of a desert and a following out of a handful of true believers. Now, whether that was a blessing or a curse, well, that's a debate best left for the philosophers to chew on, over a pot of lukewarm coffee and a plate of slightly stale biscuits. I just call 'em as I see 'em, and I saw Brigham as a force of nature, a human dam holding back the chaotic floodwaters of the West, and I reckon, mostly, he did a damn fine job of it.
