Them miners, bless their grimy souls, they were a breed apart, like a badger crossed with a burro and seasoned with a shot of forty-rod. Lord, they were a sight, comin' up out of those rat-holes with faces blacker than a preacher's heart on collection day, only their eyeballs and teeth shinin' in the dusk. You could smell 'em a mile off, a potent mix of sweat, dynamite, and despair, with a hint of hope clinging on for dear life like a tick on a hound dog. They’d stagger into town, these subterranean moles, lookin’ for all the world like they’d just crawled out of perdition, ready to trade a week’s worth of lung dust for a shot of whiskey and a game of faro. 

They weren't much for conversation, mind you, unless it involved the size of their last strike or the depth of their neighbor's pocket. A miner’s tale was generally one part fact, three parts exaggeration, and six parts pure hogwash, but you listened all the same, because there was always the chance, however slim, that he might just be tellin' the truth. And the stories! Claims jumped quicker than a flea on a hot griddle, tunnels collapsing faster than a politician’s promises, and fortunes made and lost with the turn of a card. They were superstitious critters too, wouldn’t whistle in a tunnel for fear of causin' a cave-in, and some carried rabbit's feet so worn down they looked like petrified worms. 

But underneath all the dirt and the bluster, there was a kind of grit and determination that you couldn’t find anywhere else. They were dreamers, see, chasin' after that elusive vein of gold, convinced that just around the next bend, just past that next slab of rock, lay the riches that would set them up for life. And even when the mine turned out to be a dry hole, and the dreams lay shattered like a broken pickaxe, they’d dust themselves off, buy another round of whiskey, and head back down into the darkness, hopin' against hope that tomorrow would be the day. You had to admire them, in a peculiar sort of way; they were fools, yes, but they were glorious, stubborn, gold-plated fools.
