Winter, she’s a character, alright. Comes sashaying in around late November, all draped in a deceptively innocent white gown, promising a quiet slumber. But don’t you be fooled for a second. Underneath that pristine façade lurks a regular banshee, ready to unleash a chaotic frenzy of frozen misery. You see those first few snowflakes, those delicate little things that melt on your palm? Oh, they’re just the advance guard, sent to lull you into a false sense of security. Next thing you know, you're up to your eyeballs in the confounded stuff, cursing the very day you decided to settle in a place where the ground freezes solid enough to crack a mule’s hoof.

And the wind! Lord have mercy, the wind. It ain't a gentle breeze, mind you. It’s a banshee's wail, a coyote's howl, a full-throated roar that’ll rattle your teeth and make you question the structural integrity of everything you hold dear. It sneaks in through every crack and cranny, finds every chink in your armor, and delivers a chill that'll seep clear down to your bones. You try bundling up, wrapping yourself in enough wool to make a sheep envious, but it’s no use. The wind just laughs and finds another way in, because that’s the kind of spiteful creature winter is.

Then there's the ice. Don't even get me started on the ice. It coats everything in a treacherous sheen, turning sidewalks into skating rinks and respectable citizens into clumsy, flailing fools. You spend the entire season walking like you're treading on eggshells, one tentative step at a time, all the while praying you don't end up flat on your backside, a spectacle for the amusement of any passing crows. And the animals, well, they either disappear entirely, off on some secret winter vacation, or else they get driven mad by the cold, venturing into town in search of sustenance and startling the ladies half to death. Yes sir, winter is a character alright, a real piece of work, and I’ll be right glad to see the back of her when she finally decides to pack her bags and head on out.
