Chamonix, you say? A place where the mountains stick up like petrified lightning bolts, daring the heavens to strike twice. Why, it's a veritable Tower of Babel, only instead of bricks and mortar, they're fashioned from granite and ice, and instead of a confused gibberish of tongues, it’s the universal language of gasping lungs and muttered oaths. One finds oneself quite surrounded by fellows in peculiar attire, resembling less the noble mountaineer of legend and more a collection of brightly colored caterpillars inching their way upwards. They cling to the rocks with a tenacity that would do a barnacle proud, their faces a peculiar shade of purple usually reserved for ripe plums. And the equipment! Gad, the equipment! Ropes like the entrails of some mythical beast, axes sharpened to a barber's precision, and boots that could crush granite cobblestones like walnuts. One half expects to see them sprout mechanical wings and take flight, although judging by the rate of ascent, a snail on tranquilizers might overtake them.

Now, the village itself is a charming enough affair, provided one avoids the purveyors of overpriced fondue and postcards depicting scenes of impossible heroism. The architecture, bless its heart, appears to have been designed by a committee of schizophrenic gnomes, each with a drastically different notion of aesthetic appeal. One minute you're admiring a chalet worthy of a chocolate box lid, the next you're staring aghast at a concrete monstrosity that looks as though it was rejected from a Soviet housing project. But, ah, the air! Crisp as a newly printed dollar bill, and smelling faintly of pine needles and imminent disaster. And the view! Why, it's enough to make a hardened cynic weep – or, at the very least, begrudgingly admit that creation isn't entirely the work of a deranged interior decorator. One might even be forgiven for thinking, just for a fleeting moment, that this whole mountainous charade is actually rather...well, rather splendid. But then one remembers the cost of the lift tickets, and the moment passes, replaced by the familiar feeling of being expertly fleeced.
