Now, Galilee. A region they call it, though “splintered suggestion of a region” might be nearer the mark. Imagine, if you will, a crumpled piece of green felt tossed haphazardly upon a table, that being the general aesthetic. Tiberias, a town upon its lake, preening itself with its purported hot springs, though I found the bathing experience slightly less luxurious than lukewarm dishwater. And the Sea of Galilee itself! They call it a sea, these locals, with a straight face, mind you. I’ve seen puddles in Missouri after a decent thunderstorm that could rival it in size. Though, to be fair, it does possess the commendable quality of supporting a quite robust population of fish, which is more than can be said for the Dead Sea, unless one considers bacteria a particularly delectable entree.

We wandered about the hills, climbed up, slid down, and generally exerted ourselves to look at the view, which, I must confess, held a certain charm, even if that charm was somewhat diminished by the relentless sun and the persistent bleating of goats. I saw Capernaum, or what was left of it, a mournful collection of stones that seemed to whisper tales of bygone glory. Glory, mind you, built on fish and tax collecting, which strikes me as a less-than-sturdy foundation for an empire. The guide, a fellow with more enthusiasm than historical accuracy, insisted that this was the very spot where miracles were performed. I refrained from suggesting that a miracle of truly biblical proportions would be turning the present-day ruins into something resembling a habitable town. 

The people of Galilee, bless their simple souls, are a curious lot. Hardy, certainly, and possessing a level of patience that borders on the superhuman, considering the state of their roads. They seem content enough with their lot, though I suspect a good hard winter in, say, upstate New York, would cure them of any lingering illusions about paradise. All in all, Galilee is a place that inspires a certain… well, not inspiration exactly, but perhaps a mild form of contented bemusement. One wouldn't write poetry about it, unless one was in a particularly forgiving mood, but it offers a pleasant enough backdrop for a contemplation of the absurdities of human existence, provided you have a hat and a liberal application of sunscreen.
