Slade, now there’s a town that could teach the Devil a thing or two about desolation. I reckon if you took the Mojave Desert, sprinkled it with broken bottles and tumbleweeds the size of Conestoga wagons, and then forgot to water it for a century, you’d be halfway to Slade. Why they planted a town there in the first place is a riddle that’d tax even the Sphinx. Some say it was on account of the stagecoach line, a convenient stop-off point for weary travelers keen on exchanging the discomfort of a rocking coach for the even more profound discomfort of Slade’s hospitality. I’ve heard tales of men arriving at Slade with a song in their heart and a spring in their step, only to be seen a week later, mumbling to themselves and scavenging for cigarette butts behind the saloon.

The saloon, mind you, was the centerpiece of the whole operation, a testament to the enduring human need to drown one’s sorrows in something vaguely resembling liquor. I recall walking in one day, saw a fella nursing a drink that looked suspiciously like diluted turpentine. I asked him what he thought of it, and he just stared back at me, his eyes vacant as a politician's promise, and croaked, “Tastes like defeat, friend. Pure, unadulterated defeat.” Now, I can't say I ever sampled the gentleman's libation, but I sure understood his point. 

The citizenry, a collection of prospectors down on their luck, gamblers looking for a game, and individuals who just plain seemed to have lost their way in life, gave off an air of tired resignation. They possessed a unique talent for turning any situation, no matter how promising, into a source of utter gloom. You'd see a man strike gold, or so they’d claim, and before you knew it, he’d be back at the bar, broke and bemoaning his ill-fated attempt to outsmart the town's card shark. It was a place where hope came to die, and the only sound louder than the wind howling through the abandoned mines was the collective sigh of a town that knew it was destined for the history books, not as a thriving metropolis, but as a footnote on the perils of poor planning and even poorer whiskey.
