Well, I reckon I've stumbled upon a peculiar tribe out here in the Great Basin, a pious lot calling themselves Mormons. Seems they followed Brigham Young, a fella with a beard that could house a family of squirrels, clear out to the Salt Lake Valley. Said an angel with golden plates whispered secrets to their founder, Joseph Smith – a story wild enough to make a jackrabbit laugh itself silly. They believe in the Book of Mormon, another testament, they say, and claim Jesus himself visited these here parts after His resurrection. Now, I’ve met some mighty fine storytellers in my time, but this Smith fella, he could spin a yarn that'd make Baron Munchausen blush with envy.

They're a hard-working bunch, I'll give 'em that. Turned a desert into a garden, irrigated everything till it’s greener than a frog’s backside, and built a city slicker than anything you'd find back East. They're all about community, helping each other out, which is a sight better than most mining camps where every man's for himself and the devil takes the hindmost. Though, they do have this peculiar habit of baptizing folks who are already six feet under, claiming it's doing 'em a favor in the afterlife. Figure if a man’s afterlife can be improved by a dip in a chilly baptismal font, then why not? Can't hurt none, I suppose.

And then there's the matter of polygamy. Used to be the talk of the territory, you see fellas strollin’ about with three or four wives, all smilin' polite-like. Caused quite a stir amongst the gentiles, I tell you. Nowadays, they say they've put a stop to it, done away with all the multi-wife business, but I still see folks lookin' kinda shifty-eyed when the subject comes up. All in all, they're a curious bunch, these Mormons. A mixture of piety, hard work, and a healthy dose of what some might call “high falutin' imagination.” They're like a cactus in the desert – prickly on the outside, but offering shade and sustenance to those who know how to approach 'em. Still figuring out whether to admire 'em or just shake my head and mosey along.
