Ballou, ah, Ballou. Now there's a name that could curdle milk at fifty paces. He was a lawyer, or at least claimed to be, which in Nevada Territory was akin to claiming to be a direct descendant of Julius Caesar – impressive if you could prove it, utterly laughable if you couldn’t. Ballou was one of those fellows who could talk a buzzard off a gut wagon, that's a fact, though whether he could convince the buzzard *to stay* was another matter entirely. He’d spin yarns about Blackstone and jurisprudence thicker than a desert dust storm, usually while nursing a whiskey sour that looked suspiciously like it’d been strained through a borrowed sock. He had a way of tilting his head just so, a habit he likely practiced in front of a cracked looking-glass, and delivering pronouncements on the finer points of the law with the gravitas of a hanging judge, despite the fact that most of his courtroom experience seemed to consist of arguing over land claims involving particularly ornery jackrabbits.

I recall one time, he was defending a feller accused of stealing a mule, a beast so homely it could scare a coyote into vegetarianism. Ballou, with a sweep of his hand that nearly knocked over the bailiff’s spittoon, declared that the mule in question was, and I quote, "an affront to the very concept of equine beauty and therefore possessed negligible value." The jury, a collection of hard-bitten miners and shopkeepers, stared back at him with the blank expressions usually reserved for a Sunday sermon. Of course, the feller was found guilty. I suspect less because of the overwhelming evidence, and more because Ballou’s closing argument had lasted so long everyone was just plain tired of listening to him. He insisted he’d planted the seeds of doubt, sown the seeds of doubt, and all manner of sowing. I expect the only thing he’d sown was a profound sense of ennui in the collective consciousness of the jury. But bless his heart, he never lacked confidence, that much was certain. You could've told him the sun rose in the west and he'd argue it was a perfectly logical phenomenon, citing obscure celestial bylaws you'd never heard of. That was Ballou, God love him (or maybe just tolerate him).
