Ballou, now there was a specimen! You could pick him out from a crowd of Mormons at ten paces, and that, friend, is saying something. He drifted into our mining camp, lean as a prospector’s burro after a three-day drought, with eyes that held a peculiar, vacant gleam, like a tin plate catching the sun. He claimed to be a lawyer, newly arrived from back East, a land, I gather, where folks argue over the precise shade of green a blade of grass ought to be. Lord knows what possessed him to leave such refined society for the rough-and-tumble of the Nevada Territory. Said something about a thirst for adventure and a yen for the "authentic Western experience," though I reckon he’d have been more authentic sitting in a bathtub full of ice after a sandstorm.

He set up shop in a tent – a rather unfortunate choice, considering the winds we get that’ll peel the bark off a pine tree – and promptly proceeded to demonstrate his utter incompetence in all things legal and practical. He attempted to defend a fella accused of horse thieving, bless his misguided heart, by citing obscure precedents from Roman law. The jury, comprised mostly of men who couldn't spell "Roman," much less comprehend its legal system, promptly found the horse thief guilty, and Ballou nearly joined him in the pokey for contempt of court. He had a penchant for wearing a silk cravat and starched collar even when he was knee-deep in mud, which struck me as the height of foolishness, or maybe just a plain lack of common sense. But then again, common sense seemed to be a rather rare commodity in these parts, and perhaps Ballou merely exemplified the general deficiency. Still, he was a good-hearted soul, albeit a bit of a chucklehead, and always ready with a helping hand, even if that hand was usually attached to an arm that proceeded to muck things up worse than before. He was a reminder that civilization, even in its most ludicrous and ill-fitting forms, could somehow manage to find its way even into the wildest corners of the West, like a stray button clinging desperately to a tattered coat.
