Now, about these portieres, or porte-crayons as some Frenchified folks fancy them, they’re a right puzzle if you ask me. Seems a body ain’t satisfied with a plain old door no more. Needs to dress it up, swaddle it in cloth like a babe in arms, all for the sake of keeping out a draft that a stout constitution wouldn’t even notice. I declare, if we keep on coddling ourselves this way, we'll all turn into hothouse flowers, wilting at the first whisper of winter. I saw one at Mrs. Vanderbilt’s, bless her gilded heart, thick as a tapestry, fringed with more tassels than a marching band. I half expected a miniature stagecoach to come rumbling out from behind it.

Of course, the practical argument is privacy. But I suspect that the true reason for these draperies is to provide a place for secrets to hide. Oh, the whispered confidences, the stolen kisses, the surreptitious glances that these velvet curtains have witnessed! It is a veritable confessional, only without the priest, or indeed any judgment. I imagine if a portiere could talk, it'd write a best-selling scandal sheet, and put the whole town on its ear. But, being just cloth, it has to keep mum, which I admit is a skill sorely lacking in most of society.

And then there's the matter of style. You can tell a lot about a person by their portiere, I reckon. A somber, dark one suggests a melancholy soul, or perhaps a preference for reading by candlelight and brooding on mortality. A bright, floral number speaks of a cheerful disposition, or maybe just a desperate attempt to brighten up a gloomy room. And if the portiere is torn, faded, or stained with what looks suspiciously like red wine, well, that tells a story all its own, doesn’t it? It's a silent narrator to the follies of man. Ultimately, a portiere is a foolish thing, I suppose, a bit of useless frippery meant to impress. But then again, isn’t half of what we do just that? Trying to dress up the bare bones of life with a bit of color and charm, like a lady adding a feather to her bonnet.
