Higbie, now there was a specimen. Not a man you’d pin a medal on for brilliance, mind you, but a fella with a constitution tough enough to chew nails and a spirit ornery enough to spit ‘em back at you. I encountered him out in the Washoe, of course, where all the peculiar flora and fauna of humanity tended to congregate. He fancied himself a miner, Higbie did, which is to say he spent most of his time looking for someone else to do the actual mining while he spun yarns about the motherlode he was just about to strike. A claim he wouldn’t lift a shovel to defend, I might add, but would happily trade for a jug of rotgut and a tall tale about buried pirate treasure.

He had this theory, Higbie did, about how gold always favored lazy men. “Why toil, Twain,” he’d preach, leaning back on a boulder as comfortable as you please, “when all the gold’s just waiting for a fella who knows how to sit still long enough?” Which, I suppose, explains why he was usually sitting still, waiting for the gold to jump into his lap like a trained dog. I swear, I saw him once trying to hypnotize a quartz vein, figuring he could coax the gold right out of it. Didn't work, naturally.

He possessed a vocabulary that was both colorful and entirely unreliable. Said he'd learned it from a book on “scientific prospecting,” which I suspect was actually an old almanac riddled with misprints. He was always using words like "auriferous alluvium" to describe dirt piles and "conglomerate conundra" when he meant a pile of rocks he couldn't figure out how to move. The funny thing was, despite being perpetually down on his luck and as likely to be caught swindling a preacher as striking gold, he had a charm to him. A sort of sun-baked, dust-devil charisma that drew you in, even as you knew he was likely leading you towards some harebrained scheme involving a lost Indian mine and a mule named Socrates. He was Higbie, a fixture of the landscape, a reminder that out west, even the failures had a certain grandeur about them. A grandeur usually fueled by cheap whiskey and unwavering optimism, I suppose.
