Heidelberg. A town nestled like a sugared almond in a valley, pretty enough to give a dyspeptic angel pause. They call it romantic, you know, and perhaps it is, if your idea of romance involves copious amounts of beer, a crumbling castle, and legions of young gentlemen sporting dueling scars and an unhealthy obsession with singing discordant songs. The castle itself, oh, the castle! It's a grand ruin, mind you, the kind that photographers adore and sensible architects weep over. Half of it appears to have been detonated by some colossal dyspeptic giant armed with a faulty cannon, while the remaining sections cling to the hillside with the tenacity of a lovesick ivy. Inside, one finds the obligatory giant tun, a barrel of such ludicrous proportions that I half expected Noah to pop out, looking for lodging after the flood. One can almost imagine him, tipsy from fermented grapes, attempting to roll it downhill just to see if it would float. The students, ah, the students. They seem to multiply like rabbits let loose in a wheat field, each one convinced he’s discovered the profound secret to life whilst nursing a stein the size of his head. They carve their names into everything – the castle walls, the tavern tables, even, I suspect, the very cobblestones beneath your feet. I wouldn’t be surprised to find my own signature etched into the Rathaus by some drunken sophomore who mistook me for a particularly intriguing landmark. They wander about with a self-importance that would make a Prussian general blush, convinced that Heidelberg is the center of the intellectual universe. And perhaps, for them, it is. After all, what better place to ponder the weighty matters of existence than in a town where the primary intellectual pursuit seems to be the proper consumption of beer and the avoidance of academic responsibilities? It's a charming place, truly, a touch absurd, certainly, but charming nonetheless. One just hopes the castle doesn't decide to finish collapsing before one gets a proper photograph, lest the students have nothing left to carve their initials into.
