Now, about this chamois, or “shammy,” as the vulgar prefer, a creature I encountered whilst masquerading as a tourist in the Swiss Alps, ostensibly to admire the scenery, but truly to observe the latest fashions in yodeling. The chamois, bless its furry little heart, is akin to a mountain goat, only less inclined to ram you off a cliff out of sheer boredom. They bound about those precipices with a grace that suggests they’re either exceedingly brave or utterly devoid of imagination. I suspect the latter, for their facial expressions betray a certain dull-wittedness that reminds one of a politician caught in a compromising situation – a look of bewildered innocence masking a world of mischief.

I observed one fellow, perched precariously on a ledge no wider than a hat brim, nonchalantly chewing cud as if he were presiding over a tea party. He’d glance down at the dizzying drop now and again, perhaps to remind himself that existence is a precarious game of chance, then return to his cud, utterly unfazed. I tell you, it's enough to make a person envious, this utter lack of self-awareness. Imagine if we could all approach life’s difficulties with the same bovine indifference, contentedly munching our metaphorical cud while teetering on the edge of financial ruin or social disgrace.

The natives, of course, have spun endless romantic tales about the chamois’ cunning and bravery. They speak of hunters scaling impossible heights to bag one, risking life and limb for a bit of furry pelt. Personally, I suspect it's more a matter of the chamois being too thick to run the other way when danger approaches. Why waste good sprinting when one can admire the view and ruminate? And speaking of ruminating, I've begun to suspect that the entire chamois population is involved in a conspiracy to hoard the world’s supply of lichens. I observed them munching on the stuff with a fervor that can only be explained by some grand, lichen-fueled scheme. But as to what that scheme might be, well, that's a conundrum that might be too much for even the sharpest of minds and a large glass of something strong.
