The Neckar, you see, is not like your Mississippi, churning and swaggering along, full of itself and catfish. Heavens, no. It's a much more modest affair, a demure little river that seems almost embarrassed to be making its way through the Black Forest. One might almost suspect it of tiptoeing, lest it disturb the gnomes and woodland sprites said to populate those parts. They say it springs from a spring, which seems rather obvious, I grant you, but it adds a certain air of innocence to the proceedings, don't you think? I watched it ripple past Heidelberg, and even there, where you'd expect a river to put on airs, what with the grand castle looming above and the students throwing caution (and beer steins, I suspect) to the wind, the Neckar remained resolutely unassuming. The bridges, of course, try to lend it some grandeur, with their arches and statuary, but the Neckar simply slides underneath, as if to say, "Oh, this old thing? I've seen better."

And the towns that cling to its banks! Rothenburg ob der Tauber (though technically not *on* the Neckar, but close enough for government work), with its half-timbered houses all leaning in for a gossip, and Tübingen, where the professors seem to be even more ancient and gnarled than the cobblestones. The Neckar just meanders along, seemingly amused by the whole spectacle. I daresay it’s seen it all before, having been witness to countless generations of Germans trying to out-philosophize each other. I even saw a fellow attempt to navigate it on a rubber swan, which struck me as a particularly optimistic, if ill-conceived, endeavor. The Neckar, however, remained unperturbed, merely allowing the swan to drift downstream with an air of gentle resignation, like a tired old uncle resigned to his nephew's eccentricities. In short, the Neckar is a river best enjoyed with a glass of local wine and a healthy dose of skepticism. Just don't expect it to perform any dramatic feats; it's much too busy quietly mocking the human condition to bother with theatrics.
