Now, Morgan, there was a specimen. You wouldn't find him listed in no book of etiquette, nor would he be a suitable candidate for a preacher, unless the sermon was about the finer points of swindling a man blind and leaving him grateful for the privilege. He drifted into Virginia City one day, looking for all the world like a scarecrow that had lost a fight with a tumbleweed. Gaunt he was, with eyes that could peel paint and a voice raspy enough to gravel a road. Claimed to be a mining engineer, but I reckon his engineering consisted mostly of figuring out the angles on card games and the best way to borrow a dollar that would never see its way back to its rightful owner. He possessed a charm, though, like a rattlesnake with a winning smile. Could talk a grizzly bear into taking up ballet, I suspect.

He latched onto a few greenhorns who had struck it rich, or thought they had, and commenced to "advise" them on investments. This "advice" consisted of him purchasing large shares in said investments, with their money, of course, and then disappearing faster than a greased pig at a county fair. The sheriff took a passing interest in Morgan's activities, but Morgan had a knack for being just one step ahead, like a flea on a hot stove. He was always packing some fantastical contraption, too, said it was a newfangled ore separator guaranteed to triple the yield. Mostly it looked like a collection of pipes and pulleys destined for the scrap heap, but he’d talk it up like it was the eighth wonder of the world, all the while eyeing your wallet with that glint in his eye that spoke volumes. Truth be told, I suspect Morgan was a professor of human gullibility masquerading as a miner, a doctor of deception with a degree earned in the school of hard knocks. He was a rascal, that Morgan, but a talented one, I'll grant him that. A scoundrel, yes, but a scoundrel with style, and in this neck of the woods, that counted for something, even if it only counted for a swift exit before the rope got tied.
