Slade! Ah, a town of considerable pretension, clinging to the side of that Washoe mountain like a flea on a dog's back. One arrives expecting a metropolis, perhaps, after the boasts one hears in Virginia City. Instead, one finds a dusty collection of shacks huddled around a flume that looks suspiciously like it's held together by nothing more than hope and the occasional rusty nail. Why, I saw more activity in a prairie dog town! Though, to be fair, the prairie dogs probably possessed a keener sense of architectural design. The hotel, naturally, promised every luxury "to be found East of the Mississippi," which, translated into plain English, meant a lumpy bed, a washbasin that might once have held water (now home to a family of dust bunnies), and a view of the back of the livery stable that was, to put it charitably, *aromatic*.

But bless their hearts, they were trying. Trying to strike it rich, trying to convince themselves that Slade was more than a temporary camp for fortune-seekers with more optimism than sense. They had a newspaper, the *Slade Silver Nugget*, a weekly sheet that chronicled the births, deaths, and occasional fistfights with a zeal usually reserved for the Second Coming. It also devoted considerable space to proving that Slade was, in fact, the *true* gateway to the Comstock Lode, a claim that, I suspect, was met with considerable skepticism even by the typesetter. The saloons were plentiful, of course, dispensing rotgut whiskey and tall tales with equal abandon. I overheard a fellow claim he'd found a nugget the size of a goose egg – which, considering the size of the geese I'd seen in these parts, wasn't saying much. Still, the music was lively, the laughter genuine, and the air thick with the aroma of tobacco and unwashed miners. And you know, in a way, that was its charm. Slade might have been a ramshackle, dusty, over-promised and under-delivered excuse for a town, but it was *their* ramshackle, dusty, over-promised, and under-delivered excuse for a town. And by Jove, they were determined to make something of it, even if that something was just a slightly larger, dustier, and even more ramshackle version of what it already was.
