Now, Slade, that was a character and a half, a genuine specimen of the frontier, boiled down and potent. I first clapped eyes on him whilst propped against the bar at the Overland Stage station – a veritable monument of grime and grit, looking for all the world like he'd wrestled a bear and let the bear win, just for the sport of it. His reputation, it preceded him like a swarm of particularly ill-tempered mosquitoes. They said he could out-cuss a mule skinner, out-drink a cavalry regiment, and out-shoot the devil himself – and generally did all three before breakfast. Folks whispered tales of his time as a division agent, tales so lurid they’d make a dime novel blush, filled with hangings, shootings, and general mayhem visited upon anyone unlucky enough to cross his path.

He was a smallish man, mind you, not the towering behemoth one might expect of such a fearsome reputation. But what he lacked in height, he made up for in a certain... intensity. His eyes, those were something to behold – like chips of flint, capable of sparking a prairie fire with a single glance. And his mustache, Lord have mercy, that was a thing of beauty, a walrus tusk of facial hair, meticulously waxed and oiled, defying the very notion of uncivilized grooming. It practically screamed, “I may be a ruthless desperado, but I’m a ruthless desperado with impeccable personal hygiene!”

He carried himself with a languid sort of grace, like a panther about to pounce. He'd watch you, sizing you up, probably estimating your worth as a hostage or a target, depending on his mood. And truth be told, I was mostly relieved when he seemed to lose interest in me and turn his attention to a particularly persistent fly buzzing around his whiskey. Watching him stalk that fly with a predatory gleam in his eye, I couldn't help but think, "Well, if he treats insects with such deadly seriousness, I'm thankful I'm not a horse thief.” He was a terrifying individual, no doubt, but one couldn't help but find a certain grudging admiration for the sheer audacity of the man. He was, in his own peculiar way, a landmark of the West. A warning sign in human form. And a reminder that civilization hadn't quite managed to tame every wild corner of this blessed, untamed land.
