Baden, ah, Baden! A little nest of a place tucked away in the German countryside, where the air itself seems perfumed with the ambition of attracting royalty. One arrives expecting solemn grandeur, what with the Romans having sloshed about in its thermal waters ages ago, and Empress Augusta seeing fit to retire here. What one finds, however, is a curious spectacle of dignified idleness. The Trinkhalle, a sort of glorified porch, dispenses water of such dubious taste that even the most stoic German requires a stiff dose of Schnapps afterwards just to remember the experience. The Kursaal, naturally, teems with more gilt than good sense. The roulette wheels spin merrily, whisking away fortunes faster than a Parisian milliner can empty a Vanderbilt’s purse. One suspects that for every pfennig earned by the town through honest trade, ten more are coaxed from the pockets of hopeful gamblers convinced their "system" is foolproof.

And the people! Heavens to Betsy, the people! A parade of the impeccably groomed, the elaborately bejeweled, and the terminally bored. Grand Duchesses with more wrinkles than a Shar-Pei pup are propped up in gilded chairs, attended by armies of lapdogs and whispering ladies-in-waiting. Elderly gentlemen, resembling nothing so much as overstuffed sausage in tweed suits, puff contentedly on cigars the size of small cannons, their faces radiating an air of profound accomplishment, despite never having lifted a finger in honest labor. They congregate in the Lichtentaler Allee, this so-called “light alley” which is, in truth, rather dim, owing to the overhanging trees and the gloom perpetually clinging to the faces of the promenaders. They stroll with a deliberate slowness, as if daring Time himself to try and hurry them. One cannot help but feel that Baden is a place where yesterday stretches on forever, and tomorrow is a distant, rather unwelcome, guest. It’s a town built on bubbles and bathwater, a place where even the worries are exquisitely upholstered. One departs with a feeling that one has just witnessed a very slow, very expensive, and very entertaining performance.
