Gibraltar, bless its hide, is a curious spectacle indeed. Perched there like a defiant bulldog guarding Britain’s watery doorstep, it rises from the shimmering Mediterranean like a geological exclamation point. A rock, sir, a magnificent, impertinent rock, and what’s more, populated with more monkeys than good sense, or at least, more than one might deem strictly necessary for the smooth running of international relations. One can scarce take a stroll without encountering these hairy ambassadors, demanding tribute in the form of pilfered pastries and the occasional shiny trinket. A fellow feeling one has, seeing them eyeing the tourists with such avarice, for haven’t we all, at some point, wished to relieve the well-heeled traveler of a souvenir or two? The town itself, clinging to the rock’s skirts like a determined barnacle, is a delightful mishmash of British propriety and Iberian zest. Red phone boxes stand sentry beside tapas bars, and the strains of Spanish guitar mingle with the clipped accents of Her Majesty’s Loyal Subjects. One half expects to see a Beefeater sharing a plate of paella with a flamenco dancer. Now, I am told that the views from the top are quite breathtaking, a panorama of sea, sky, and the distant coast of Africa. Breathtaking, no doubt, provided one is not first out of breath from the sheer effort of ascending. They have, of course, erected a contraption known as a cable car, which hoists the indolent tourist skyward with alarming efficiency. But where’s the sport in that, I ask you? Where’s the satisfaction of conquering a mountain, however diminutive, by the sweat of one’s brow and the protestations of one’s knees? I suspect the monkeys, those shrewd observers of human folly, simply sit up there, chuckling at our modern conveniences, waiting for the opportune moment to swipe our hats. Yes, Gibraltar, a rock of contradictions, a pocket-sized empire, a place where the past clings to the present with the tenacity of a monkey clinging to a tourist's handbag. A place, I dare say, that is worth a visit, if only to marvel at the sheer audacity of it all. Just watch your pockets, and carry a biscuit or two for the simian citizenry. You'll thank me later.
