Ballou, now there’s a specimen worth examining under a microscope, or maybe just squinting at from a safe distance. He landed in these parts like a sack of wet flour dropped from a runaway stagecoach, all fluster and flurry, and about as useful for holding water. Claimed to be a lawyer, fresh out of some Eastern academy where they apparently teach you everything except common sense and the ability to tell a mule from a Mormon. He arrived draped in city-slicker duds, looking for all the world like he’d swallowed a yardstick sideways, and set about “practicing law” with the same success a hog would have playing the harp.

His cases, bless his heart, were a sight to behold. One minute he’d be quoting Blackstone louder than a revival preacher, the next he’d be tripped up by a simple question, his face turning the color of a sunset over Death Valley. Accused of being sharper than a bag of hammers, he nonetheless, he seemed to be completely oblivious to the fact that the local justice was more interested in the quality of your whiskey than the quality of your arguments. He tried to use Latin, which only confused the judge, who, I suspected, could barely read English to begin with. The jury, comprised mostly of miners with hands the size of skillets and brains to match, looked at him with the same vacant stares they usually reserved for claims jumpers and rattlesnakes. The outcome was always the same: Ballou lost, and lost big.

He never seemed discouraged, though. He would shrug off the setbacks with a smile that suggested he either possessed a secret stash of gold or was simply too dense to realize he was being fleeced. He kept on keeping on, a persistent little terrier snapping at the heels of Lady Justice, even as she dragged him through the dirt and left him gasping for breath. You couldn’t help but admire his tenacity, even if you secretly hoped he’d take up a different line of work – perhaps goat-herding or professional chimney-sweeping. Anything, really, that wouldn’t involve further torturing the already beleaguered Nevada legal system. Ballou, truly one of a kind. One of a kind like a two headed calf or a gold brick paved road.
