Ballou, now there was a specimen. You wouldn't mistake him for a scholar unless he was hiding behind a particularly large stack of books – and even then, the books would probably be trembling in fear. Came out to Nevada with the rest of us greenhorns, hoping to strike it rich, I reckon, though his definition of “striking it rich” probably involved finding a clean shirt and a hot meal at the same time, a feat he rarely accomplished. He fancied himself a lawyer, did Ballou, though I’m fairly certain the only law he ever mastered was the law of unintended consequences. Every legal maneuver he attempted was a masterpiece of ineptitude, a symphony of missteps that usually ended up with him owing more money than he started with, which, considering he started with next to nothing, was quite an achievement. I recall one particularly memorable case where he was defending a fella accused of stealing a horse. Ballou, in his infinite wisdom, decided to call the horse as a witness. Yes, you read that right. The horse. Said he could "persuade" it to testify to the man's innocence. Of course, the horse just stood there, looking confused and occasionally kicking out at the bailiff. The judge, a fella with a particularly sour disposition even before Ballou’s antics, fined him for contempt of court, and the horse thief got off scot-free on account of the utter ridiculousness of the proceedings. Ballou, bless his heart, considered it a partial victory, since his client wasn’t hanged. He claimed he "confused" the jury. I maintained that the entire state of Nevada was confused by Ballou's mere existence. Despite his… shortcomings… Ballou was a good-hearted soul, always ready with a story (mostly fabricated) and a helping hand (usually clumsy). He was a living, breathing, walking advertisement for the proposition that optimism and competence were mutually exclusive. He may not have struck it rich, but he sure did strike the funny bone, whether he intended to or not. And in a place like Nevada, where the only thing drier than the desert was the humor, that counted for something.
